# status 200  final_url https://docs.cloud.google.com/sensitive-data-protection/docs/data-profiles  content-type text/html; charset=utf-8
Skip to main content
Documentation
close
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
/
Console
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
Sign in
Sensitive Data Protection
Start free
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Documentation
More
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Console
Discover
Product overview
Plan your data risk management strategy
Evaluate your data risk management needs
Learn about your data through discovery and inspection
Recommended strategies for mitigating data risk
Release notes
Pricing
Locations
Global and regional endpoints for Sensitive Data Protection
Sensitive Data Protection locations
Specify a processing location
Service method types
Supported file types and scanning modes
Get started
Quickstarts
Inspect text using the command-line tool
Inspect text using a JSON request
Schedule an inspection scan
Create an inspection template
De-identify and re-identify sensitive text
Google Cloud Skills Boost labs
Detect sensitive data
Discover and profile data resources
Overview of sensitive data discovery
Common discovery enablement scenarios
Allow discovery within service perimeters
Profile your data
Profile a single data resource
Profile BigQuery data
Estimate BigQuery data profiling cost
Estimate the cost of profiling BigQuery data in a project
Estimate the cost of profiling BigQuery data in an organization or folder
Profile BigQuery data in a project
Profile BigQuery data in an organization or folder
Profile Cloud SQL data
Profile Cloud SQL data in a project
Profile Cloud SQL data in an organization or folder
Manage connections
Profile Cloud Storage data
Profile Cloud Storage data in a project
Profile Cloud Storage data in an organization or folder
Profile Vertex AI data
Sensitive data discovery for Vertex AI data
Profile Vertex AI data in a project
Profile Vertex AI data in an organization or folder
Profile Amazon S3 data
Sensitive data discovery for Amazon S3 data
Profile Amazon S3 data
Profile Azure Blob Storage data
Report secrets in environment variables to Security Command Center
Grant data profiling access to a service agent
Manage data profiles
Control IAM access to resources based on data sensitivity
Send discovery insights to other services
Enable discovery actions
Send data profiles to Security Command Center
Receive and parse Pub/Sub messages about data profiles
Tag tables in Data Catalog based on insights from data profiles
Add Knowledge Catalog aspects based on insights from data profiles
Analyze and visualize data profiles
Visualize data profiles in the discovery dashboard
Analyze data profiles
Remediate findings from the data profiler
Manage scan configurations
Troubleshoot issues with the data profiler
Metrics reference
Data risk and sensitivity levels
Inspect for sensitive data
Inspect data stored in Google Cloud
Inspect data from any source
Inspect unstructured text synchronously
Inspect structured text synchronously
Inspect an image synchronously
Asynchronous inspection overview
Inspect data from any source asynchronously
Quote the sensitive data in the results
Work with inspection results
Actions
Send inspection results to Knowledge Catalog as aspects
Send inspection results to Data Catalog
Send inspection results to Security Command Center
Analyze and report on inspection findings
Query inspection findings in BigQuery
Parse findings stored as Protobuf text
Jobs and job triggers
Overview of jobs and job triggers
Create and manage jobs and job triggers
Web-based inspection demonstration app
Allow or block content based on sensitivity
Overview of content policies
Create and manage content policies
Configure detection
Templates
Overview of templates
Create inspection templates
InfoTypes and infoType detectors
Overview of infoTypes and infoType detectors
Built-in infoType detectors
List built-in infoType detectors
InfoType detector reference
Custom infoType detectors
Overview of custom infoType detectors
Create a regular custom dictionary detector
Create a large custom dictionary detector
Create a custom regex detector
Create a custom metadata label detector
Custom infoType examples
Manage infoTypes through the Google Cloud console
Modify infoType detectors to refine scan results
Match likelihood
Likelihood overview
Customize match likelihood
Mask and de-identify data
Overview
Transformation methods
Transformation reference
Text classification and redaction
Date shifting
Generalization and bucketing
Pseudonymization
De-identify sensitive data
De-identify data stored in Google Cloud
Overview
Through the Cloud console
Through the DLP API
Transformation details reference
De-identify data from any source
De-identify text or tabular content
Examples of text redaction
Examples of tabular data de-identification
Image inspection and redaction
Redact sensitive data from images
Create a de-identification template
Create a wrapped key
De-identify BigQuery data at query time
De-identification and re-identification of PII in large-scale datasets
Redact sensitive data from PDF files
Analyze re-identification risk
Overview of re-identification risk analysis
Re-identification risk analysis techniques
Compute k-anonymity for a dataset
Compute l-diversity for a dataset
Compute k-map for a dataset
Compute δ-presence for a dataset
Compute numerical and categorical statistics
Visualize re-identification risk using Data Studio
Connect to other services
Use Sensitive Data Protection with BigQuery
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Cloud Storage
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Cloud Storage
Automate the classification of data uploaded to Cloud Storage
Send inspection results to Data Catalog
Send inspection results to Security Command Center
Monitor your usage with Cloud Monitoring
Use Sensitive Data Protection with AWS S3
Use Sensitive Data Protection with JDBC Databases
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Apigee
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Data Fusion
Build a secure anomaly detection solution using Dataflow, BigQuery ML, and Sensitive Data Protection
Troubleshoot
Troubleshoot issues with the data profiler
Control access
Authentication
IAM
Access control with IAM
Sensitive Data Protection roles and permissions
Sensitive Data Protection service agents
Control access with VPC Service Controls
Monitor
Audit logging
Monitor your usage with Cloud Monitoring
Develop
All Sensitive Data Protection code samples
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Cloud Data Loss Prevention (Cloud DLP) is now a part of Sensitive Data Protection. The API name remains the same: Cloud Data Loss Prevention API (DLP API). For information about the services that make up Sensitive Data Protection, see Sensitive Data Protection overview.
Home
Documentation
Security
Sensitive Data Protection
Guides
Send feedback
Overview of sensitive data discovery
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
This page describes the sensitive data discovery service. This service
continuously monitors your data, classifies it, and shows you where sensitive
and high-risk data reside. Discovering and classifying sensitive data is an
important element of a strong cloud data security and risk
management strategy.
The Sensitive Data Protection discovery service (sometimes called data
profiler) continuously monitors the data resources in your organization,
folder, or project. It classifies the data into
infoTypes, and assesses the data
sensitivity and risk levels. This service generates data profiles, which provide
insights and metrics about your data. You can send data profiles to other
Google Cloud services, like Security Command Center and Knowledge Catalog, to take
advantage of the insights that the profiles provide.
Disclaimer:
Sensitive Data Protection does its best to accurately assess the customer data but cannot commit to
100% accuracy across all scenarios. Each customer is responsible for independently evaluating
their own particular use of the services as appropriate to support their legal and compliance
obligations.
How it works
The sensitive data discovery process involves the following high-level steps:
You enable sensitive data discovery by creating a discovery scan
configuration (also
called a data profile configuration) that is scoped to an organization,
folder, or project. In the scan configuration, you can set filters to
specify subsets of data that you want to profile or skip. You can also set
the profiling schedule.
In the scan configuration, you also set the inspection
template to use. The inspection template is where you
specify the types of sensitive data (also called
infoTypes) that
Sensitive Data Protection must scan for.
You can also enable
actions that you want
Sensitive Data Protection to take after each scan. For example, you can
configure an action that sends a Pub/Sub notification whenever there
is a change in the sensitivity level of a data profile.
Within the scope of the configuration, Sensitive Data Protection scans
all supported data resources for sensitive information and context that are
specified as infoTypes in your configuration. Sensitive Data Protection
analyzes your data based on your scan configuration and inspection template.
Sensitive Data Protection generates data profiles, which provide metrics
and insights about your data. In Sensitive Data Protection, this process
is called data profiling. The types of profiles generated depend on
the type of data that Sensitive Data Protection scanned.
If you profile data stored in BigQuery or Cloud SQL,
Sensitive Data Protection generates the following:
One table data
profile for
each table.
One column data
profile for
each column in the table.
One project data
profile for
each project scanned. This profile aggregates insights and metrics
from all data profiles in the project.
If you profile data stored in Cloud Storage or a storage service
in other clouds, Sensitive Data Protection generates the following:
One file store data
profile
for each bucket.
One project data profile for each project scanned. This profile
aggregates insights and metrics from all data profiles in the project.
Sensitive Data Protection performs any actions that you enabled in your
discovery scan configuration.
As long as the discovery scan configuration is active,
Sensitive Data Protection automatically profiles data that you add or
modify.
Sensitive Data Protection reprofiles data as described in Frequency of data profile
generation. You can customize the profiling frequency in your scan configuration by creating a schedule.
To force the discovery service to reprofile your data, see Force a reprofile
operation.
Data profiles
Each data profile is a set of insights and metadata that the
discovery service gathers from scanning a supported
resource. Insights include the predicted
infoTypes and the
calculated data risk and sensitivity
levels of your
data. Use these insights to make informed decisions about how you protect,
share, and use your data.
Data profiles are generated at various levels of detail. For example, when you
profile BigQuery data, profiles are generated at the project,
table, and column levels.
The following image shows a list of column-level data profiles. Click the image
to enlarge it.
For a list of insights and metadata included in each data profile, see
Metrics reference.
For more information about the Google Cloud resource hierarchy, see
Resource hierarchy.
Types of sensitive data discovery
This section describes the types of discovery operations that you can perform
and the supported data resources.
Discovery for BigQuery and BigLake
When you profile BigQuery data,
data profiles are generated at the project, table, and column levels. After
profiling a BigQuery table, you can further investigate the
findings by performing a deep
inspection.
Sensitive Data Protection profiles tables that are supported by the
BigQuery Storage Read API, including the
following:
Standard BigQuery tables
Table snapshots
BigLake tables stored in Cloud Storage
The following aren't supported:
BigQuery Omni tables.
Tables where the serialized data size of individual rows exceed the
maximum serialized data size
that the BigQuery Storage Read API supports—128 MB.
Non-BigLake external tables, like Google Sheets.
For information about how to profile BigQuery data, see the
following:
Profile BigQuery data in a single
project
Profile BigQuery data in an organization or
folder
For more information about BigQuery, see the
BigQuery documentation.
Discovery for Cloud SQL
When you profile Cloud SQL data, data profiles are generated at
the project, table, and column levels. Before discovery can begin,
you need to provide the connection details for each Cloud SQL instance
to be profiled.
For information about how to profile Cloud SQL data, see the
following:
Profile Cloud SQL data in a single
project
Profile Cloud SQL data in an organization or
folder
For more information about Cloud SQL, see the Cloud SQL
documentation.
Discovery for Cloud Storage
When you profile Cloud Storage data, data profiles are generated at the
bucket level. Sensitive Data Protection groups the detected files into file
clusters
and provides a summary for each cluster.
For information about how to profile Cloud Storage data, see the
following:
Profile Cloud Storage data in a single
project
Profile Cloud Storage data in an organization or
folder
For more information about Cloud Storage, see the
Cloud Storage documentation.
Discovery for Vertex AI
When you profile a Vertex AI resource,
Sensitive Data Protection generates a file store data profile or a table
data profile, depending on where your training data is stored:
Cloud Storage or BigQuery.
For more information, see the following:
Sensitive data discovery for
Vertex AI
Profile Vertex AI data in a single
project
Profile Vertex AI data in an organization or
folder
For more information about Vertex AI, see the
Vertex AI documentation.
Discovery for other cloud providers
When you profile S3 data, data profiles are generated at
the bucket level. When you profile Azure Blob Storage data, data
profiles are generated at the container level.
In both cases, Sensitive Data Protection groups the detected files into
file
clusters
and provides a summary for each cluster.
For more information, see the following:
Sensitive data discovery for Amazon S3
data
Profile Azure Blob Storage
data
Cloud Run environment variables
The discovery service can detect the presence of
secrets in
Cloud Run functions and Cloud Run service revision environment variables,
and send any findings to Security Command Center. No data profiles are generated.
For more information, see Report secrets in environment variables to
Security Command Center.
Roles required to configure and view data profiles
The following sections list the required user roles, categorized according to
their purpose. Depending on how your organization is set up, you might decide to
have different people perform different tasks. For example, the person who
configures data profiles might be different from the person who regularly monitors
them.
Roles required to work with data profiles at the organization or folder level
These roles let you configure and view data profiles at the organization or
folder level.
Make sure these roles are granted to the proper people at the organization
level. Alternatively, your Google Cloud administrator can
create custom roles that only have the
relevant permissions.
| Purpose
| Predefined role
| Relevant permissions
| Create a discovery scan configuration and view data profiles
| DLP Administrator (roles/dlp.admin)
|
dlp.columnDataProfiles.list
dlp.fileStoreProfiles.list
dlp.inspectTemplates.create
dlp.jobs.create
dlp.jobs.list
dlp.jobTriggers.create
dlp.jobTriggers.list
dlp.projectDataProfiles.list
dlp.tableDataProfiles.list
| Create a project to be used as the service agent container1
| Project Creator (roles/resourcemanager.projectCreator)
|
resourcemanager.organizations.get
resourcemanager.projects.create
| Grant discovery access2
| One of the following:
Organization Administrator
(roles/resourcemanager.organizationAdmin)
Security Admin (roles/iam.securityAdmin)
|
resourcemanager.organizations.getIamPolicy
resourcemanager.organizations.setIamPolicy
| View data profiles (read-only)
| DLP Data Profiles Reader (roles/dlp.dataProfilesReader)
|
dlp.columnDataProfiles.list
dlp.fileStoreProfiles.list
dlp.projectDataProfiles.list
dlp.tableDataProfiles.list
| DLP Reader (roles/dlp.reader)
|
dlp.jobs.list
dlp.jobTriggers.list
1 If you don't have the Project
Creator (roles/resourcemanager.projectCreator) role, you can still create a scan
configuration, but the service agent
container that you use must be an existing project.
2 If you don't have the Organization
Administrator (roles/resourcemanager.organizationAdmin) or Security Admin
(roles/iam.securityAdmin) role, you can still create a scan configuration. After you
create the scan configuration, someone in your organization who has one of these roles must grant discovery access to the
service agent.
Roles required to work with data profiles at the project level
These roles let you configure and view data profiles at the project level.
Make sure these roles are granted to the proper people at the project
level. Alternatively, your Google Cloud administrator can
create custom roles that only have the
relevant permissions.
| Purpose
| Predefined role
| Relevant permissions
| Configure and view data profiles
| DLP Administrator (roles/dlp.admin)
|
dlp.columnDataProfiles.list
dlp.fileStoreProfiles.list
dlp.inspectTemplates.create
dlp.jobs.create
dlp.jobs.list
dlp.jobTriggers.create
dlp.jobTriggers.list
dlp.projectDataProfiles.list
dlp.tableDataProfiles.list
| View data profiles (read-only)
| DLP Data Profiles Reader (roles/dlp.dataProfilesReader)
|
dlp.columnDataProfiles.list
dlp.fileStoreProfiles.list
dlp.projectDataProfiles.list
dlp.tableDataProfiles.list
| DLP Reader (roles/dlp.reader)
|
dlp.jobs.list
dlp.jobTriggers.list
Sensitive data discovery scan configuration
A discovery scan configuration (sometimes called discovery configuration or
scan configuration) specifies how Sensitive Data Protection should profile
your data. It includes the following settings:
Scope
(organization, folder, or project) of the discovery operation
Type of
resource
to profile
Inspection
templates
to use
Scan
frequency
Specific subsets of data that should be included in or excluded from discovery
Actions
that you want Sensitive Data Protection to take after discovery—for
example, which Google Cloud services to publish the profiles to
Service
agent
to use for discovery operations
For information about how to create an organization-level or project-level
discovery scan configuration, see the following pages:
| Discovery type
| Create an organization-level scan configuration
| Create a project-level scan configuration1
| Discovery for BigQuery data
| Profile BigQuery data in an organization or folder
| Profile BigQuery data in a single project
| Discovery for Cloud SQL data
| Profile Cloud SQL data in an organization or folder
| Profile Cloud SQL data in a single project
| Discovery for Cloud Storage data
| Profile Cloud Storage data in an organization or folder
| Profile Cloud Storage data in a single project
| Discovery for Vertex AI data
| Profile Vertex AI data in an organization or folder
| Profile Vertex AI data in a single project
| Discovery for Amazon S3 data
| Discovery for Amazon S3 data
| Not applicable
| Discovery for Azure Blob Storage data
| Discovery for Azure Blob Storage data
| Not applicable
| Secrets discovery (no profiles generated)
| Configure secrets discovery at the organization level
| Configure secrets discovery at the project level
1 Not suitable for customers who have an organization-level discovery
subscription, such as one provided through Security Command Center
Scan configuration scopes
You can create a scan configuration at the following levels:
Organization
Folder
Project
Single data resource
At the organization and folder levels, if two or more active scan configurations
have the same project in their scope, Sensitive Data Protection determines which
scan configuration can generate profiles for that project. For more information,
see Overriding scan
configurations on this page.
A project-level scan configuration can always profile the target project and
does not compete with other configurations at the level of the parent folder or
organization.
A single-resource scan
configuration is intended
to help you explore and test profiling on a single data resource.
Scan configuration location
The first time you create a scan configuration, you specify where you want
Sensitive Data Protection to store it. All subsequent scan
configurations that you create are stored in that same region.
For example, if you create a scan configuration for Folder A and store it in the
us-west1 region, then any scan configuration that you later create for any
other resource is also stored in that region.
Metadata about the data to be profiled is copied to the same region
as your scan configurations, but the data itself isn't
moved or copied. For more information, see Data residency
considerations.
Inspection template
An inspection template specifies what information
types (or infoTypes) Sensitive Data Protection looks for while scanning
your data. Here, you provide a combination of built-in infoTypes
and optional custom infoTypes.
You can also provide a likelihood level to
narrow down what Sensitive Data Protection considers to be a match. You can
add rule sets to exclude unwanted findings or include additional findings.
By default, if you change an inspection template that your scan configuration
uses, the changes are applied only to future scans. Your action doesn't
cause a reprofile operation on your data.
If you want inspection template changes to trigger reprofile operations on the
affected data, add or update a schedule in your scan configuration, and turn on
the option to reprofile the data when the inspection template changes. For more
information, see Frequency of data profile generation.
Note:
We regularly improve our detection algorithm. If we find that your organization
or project would benefit from a new improvement that we implement, we might
automatically regenerate your data profiles and redo the actions in your scan
configuration. You won't incur Sensitive Data Protection charges for this
operation. However, because we will redo the actions, you might incur charges
for your use of other Google Cloud services. For example, if you configured
Sensitive Data Protection to save the data profiles to BigQuery, you
might incur BigQuery charges.
You must have an inspection template in each region where you have data to be
profiled. If you want to use a single template for multiple regions, you can use
a template that is stored in the global region. If organizational
policies prevent you from creating an inspection template in the global region, then
you must set a dedicated inspection template for each region. For more
information, see Data
residency considerations.
Inspection templates are a core component of the Sensitive Data Protection platform.
Data profiles use the same inspection templates that you can use across all
Sensitive Data Protection services. For more information on inspection templates,
see Templates.
Service agent container and service agent
When you create a scan configuration for your organization or for a folder,
Sensitive Data Protection
requires you to provide a service agent container. A service agent container
is a Google Cloud project that Sensitive Data Protection uses to track
billed charges related to organization- and folder-level profiling operations.
The service agent container contains a service agent, which
Sensitive Data Protection uses to profile data on your behalf. You need a service
agent to authenticate to Sensitive Data Protection and other APIs. Your service
agent must have all the required permissions to access and profile your data.
The service agent's ID is in the following format:
service-PROJECT_NUMBER@dlp-api.iam.gserviceaccount.com
Here, the PROJECT_NUMBER is the numerical identifier of the service
agent container.
When setting the service agent container, you can choose an existing project.
If the project you select contains a service agent, Sensitive Data Protection
grants the required IAM permissions
to that service agent. If the project doesn't have a service agent,
Sensitive Data Protection creates one and automatically grants data profiling
permissions to it.
Alternatively, you can choose to have Sensitive Data Protection
automatically create the service agent container and service agent.
Sensitive Data Protection automatically grants data profiling permissions to the
service agent.
In both cases, if Sensitive Data Protection fails to grant data profiling
access to your service agent, it shows an
error
when you view the scan configuration details.
For project-level scan configurations, you don't need a service agent
container. The project you're profiling serves the service agent
container's purpose. To run profiling operations, Sensitive Data Protection uses
that project's own service agent.
Data profiling access at the organization or folder level
When you configure sensitive data
discovery at the
organization or folder level, Sensitive Data Protection attempts to automatically
grant data profiling access to your service agent. However, if you don't have
the permissions to grant discovery access,
Sensitive Data Protection can't do this action on your behalf. Someone with those
permissions in your organization, such as a Google Cloud administrator, must
grant data profiling access to your service
agent.
Frequency of data profile generation
After you create a discovery scan configuration for a particular resource,
Sensitive Data Protection performs an initial scan, profiling the data in
the scope of your scan configuration.
After the initial scan, Sensitive Data Protection continuously monitors the
profiled resource. Data added in the resource is
automatically profiled shortly after it is added.
Default reprofiling frequency
The default reprofiling frequency differs depending on the discovery
type of your scan configuration:
BigQuery profiling: for each table, wait 30 days and then
reprofile the table if it has changes in the schema, table rows, or inspection
template.
Cloud SQL profiling: for each table, wait 30 days and then reprofile
the table if it has changes in the schema or inspection
template.
Vertex AI profiling: for each resource, wait 30 days and then
reprofile the resource if the inspection template has changes.
File store profiling: for each file store in Google Cloud or in other clouds,
wait 30 days and then reprofile the file store if the inspection template has
changes.
Sensitive Data Protection uses the term file store to
refer to a file storage bucket or container.
Customizing the reprofiling frequency
In your scan configuration, you can customize the reprofiling frequency by
creating one or more schedules for different subsets of your data.
The following reprofiling frequencies are available:
Do not reprofile: Never reprofile after the initial profiles are
generated.
Reprofile daily: Wait 24 hours before reprofiling.
Reprofile weekly: Wait 7 days before reprofiling.
Reprofile monthly: Wait 30 days before reprofiling.
Reprofiling on a schedule
In your scan configuration, you can specify whether a subset of data should be
reprofiled regularly regardless of whether the data underwent changes.
The frequency you set specifies how much time must pass between profiling
operations. For example, if you set the frequency to weekly,
Sensitive Data Protection profiles a data resource seven days after it was
last profiled.
Reprofiling on update
In your scan configuration, you can specify events that can trigger
reprofiling operations. Examples of such events are inspection template updates.
When you select these events, the schedule you set specifies the longest time
Sensitive Data Protection waits for updates to accumulate before it
reprofiles your data. If no applicable changes—like schema changes or
inspection template changes—occur within your specified period, no data is
reprofiled. When the next applicable change occurs, the affected data is
reprofiled at the next opportunity, which is determined by various factors (such
as the available machine capacity or the subscription units
purchased).
Sensitive Data Protection then starts waiting for updates to accumulate again
according to your set schedule.
For example, suppose your scan configuration is set to reprofile monthly on
schema change. The data profiles were first created on day 0. No schema changes
occur by day 30, so no data is reprofiled. On day 35, the first schema change
occurs. Sensitive Data Protection reprofiles the updated data at the next
opportunity. The system then waits another 30 days for schema updates to
accumulate before it reprofiles any updated data.
From the time reprofiling begins, it can take up to 24 hours for the operation
to complete. If the delay lasts longer than 24 hours and you're in subscription
pricing mode, confirm whether you have remaining capacity for the
month.
For example scenarios, see Data profiling pricing examples.
To force the discovery service to reprofile your data, see Force a reprofile
operation.
Note:
We regularly improve our detection algorithm. If we find that your organization
or project would benefit from a new improvement that we implement, we might
automatically regenerate your data profiles and redo the actions in your scan
configuration. You won't incur Sensitive Data Protection charges for this
operation. However, because we will redo the actions, you might incur charges
for your use of other Google Cloud services. For example, if you configured
Sensitive Data Protection to save the data profiles to BigQuery, you
might incur BigQuery charges.
Discovery performance
The time it takes to profile your data varies depending on several factors,
including, but not limited to, the following:
Number of data resources being profiled
Sizes of the data resources
For tables, the number of columns
For tables, the data types in the columns
Therefore,
Sensitive Data Protection's performance in a past inspection or profiling task
isn't indicative of how it will perform in future profiling tasks.
Retention of data profiles
Sensitive Data Protection retains the latest version of a data profile
indefinitely. When Sensitive Data Protection reprofiles a data resource, the system
replaces that data resource's existing profiles with new ones.
Deleting a data profile forces the system to
reprofile
the source data, unless you exclude it from your discovery configuration.
For information on how Sensitive Data Protection charges for profiling data, see
Discovery pricing.
If you want to explore data profiles, join them with other data sources, or keep a
record of the changes they undergo, consider saving the data profiles to
BigQuery when you
configure sensitive data
discovery. You choose
which
BigQuery dataset to save the profiles to, and you control the
table expiration policy for that dataset.
Override scan configurations
You can create only one scan configuration for each combination of
scope and discovery type. For example, you can
create only one organization-level scan configuration for
BigQuery data profiling and one organization-level scan
configuration for secrets discovery. Similarly, you can create only one
project-level scan configuration for BigQuery data profiling and
one project-level scan configuration for secrets discovery.
If two or more active scan configurations have the same project and discovery
type in their scope, the following rules apply:
Among organization-level and folder-level scan configurations, the one that is
closest to the project will be able to run discovery for that project.
This rule applies even if a project-level scan configuration with the same
discovery type also exists.
Sensitive Data Protection treats project-level scan configurations independently
of organization-level and folder-level configurations. A scan configuration that
you create at the project level can't override one that you create for a
parent folder or organization.
Consider the following example, where there are three active scan configurations.
Assume that all of these scan configurations are for BigQuery
data profiling.
Here, Scan configuration 1 applies to the entire organization,
Scan configuration 2 applies to the Team B folder, and Scan
configuration 3 applies to the Production project. In this example:
Sensitive Data Protection profiles all tables in projects that aren't in
the Team B folder according to Scan configuration 1.
Sensitive Data Protection profiles all tables in projects in the Team B
folder—including tables in the Production project—according
to Scan configuration 2.
Sensitive Data Protection profiles all tables in the Production project
according to Scan configuration 3.
In this example, Sensitive Data Protection generates two sets of
profiles for the Production project—one set for each of the following scan
configurations:
Scan configuration 2
Scan configuration 3
However, even though there are two sets of profiles for the same project, you
don't see them all together in your dashboard. You only see the profiles that
were generated in the resource—organization, folder, or project—and
region that you're viewing.
For more information on Google Cloud's resource hierarchy, see
Resource hierarchy.
Data profile snapshots
Each data profile includes a snapshot of the scan configuration and the
inspection template that were used to generate it. You can use this snapshot to
check the settings that you used to generate a particular data profile.
Data residency considerations
Data residency considerations differ depending on whether you are scanning
Google Cloud data or data from other cloud
providers.
Data residency considerations for Google Cloud data
This section applies only to sensitive data discovery for Google Cloud
resources. For data residency considerations related to resources from other
cloud providers, see Data residency
considerations for data from other cloud providers on this page.
Sensitive Data Protection is designed to support data residency. If you must comply
with data residency requirements, consider the following points:
Regional inspection templates
This section applies only to sensitive data discovery for Google Cloud
resources. For data residency considerations related to resources from other
cloud providers, see Data residency
considerations for data from other cloud providers on this page.
Sensitive Data Protection processes your data
in the same region where that data is stored. That is, your data doesn't leave
its current region.
Furthermore, an inspection template can only be used to profile data that
resides in the same region as that template. For example, if you configure
discovery to use an inspection template that is stored in the us-west1
region, Sensitive Data Protection can only profile data in that region.
You can set a dedicated inspection template for each region where you have data.
If you provide an inspection template that's stored in the global region,
Sensitive Data Protection uses that template for data in regions with no
dedicated inspection template.
Note: If you don't include an inspection template that's stored in the
global region, Sensitive Data Protection can't profile data in regions
that don't have a dedicated inspection template. For those data resources,
profiling fails with an error.
The following table provides example scenarios:
| Scenario
| Support
| Scan data in the us region using an inspection template from
the us region.
| Supported
| Scan data in the global region using an inspection template
from the us region.
| Not supported
| Scan data in the us region using an inspection template from
the global region.
| Supported
| Scan data in the us region using an inspection template from
the us-east1 region.
| Not supported
| Scan data in the us-east1 region using an inspection template
from the us region.
| Not supported
| Scan data in the us region using an inspection template from
the asia region.
| Not supported
Data profile configuration
This section applies only to sensitive data discovery for Google Cloud
resources. For data residency considerations related to resources from other
cloud providers, see Data residency
considerations for data from other cloud providers on this page.
When Sensitive Data Protection creates data profiles, it takes a snapshot of your
scan configuration and inspection template and stores them in each table data
profile
or file store data
profile.
If you configure discovery to use an inspection template from the global
region, then Sensitive Data Protection copies that template to any region that has
data to be profiled. Similarly, it copies the scan configuration to those
regions.
Consider this example: Project A contains Table 1. Table 1 is
in the us-west1 region; the scan configuration is in the us-west2 region;
and the inspection template is in the global region.
When Sensitive Data Protection scans Project A, it creates data profiles for
Table 1 and stores them in the us-west1 region. Table 1's table data profile
contains copies of the scan configuration and the inspection template used in
the profiling operation.
If you don't want your inspection template to be copied to other regions,
don't configure Sensitive Data Protection to scan data in those regions.
Regional storage of data profiles
This section applies only to sensitive data discovery for Google Cloud
resources. For data residency considerations related to resources from other
cloud providers, see Data residency
considerations for data from other cloud providers on this page.
Sensitive Data Protection processes your data in the region
or multi-region where they reside and stores the generated data profiles in the
same region or multi-region.
To view data
profiles
in the Google Cloud console, you must first select the region where they reside. If
you have data in multiple regions, then you must switch regions to view each set
of profiles.
Tip: If you want a centralized view of all your data profiles, then
turn on the Save data profile copies to BigQuery option when
you configure sensitive data
discovery. There, you
specify a single BigQuery dataset to store your profiles. You can
then query them all together. In this case, the data profiles from various
regions are stored together in one
BigQuery dataset, in the region where that dataset resides.
Unsupported regions
This section applies only to sensitive data discovery for Google Cloud
resources. For data residency considerations related to resources from other
cloud providers, see Data residency
considerations for data from other cloud providers on this page.
If you have data in a region that
Sensitive Data Protection doesn't support, then the discovery service skips those
data resources and shows an error when you view the data
profiles.
Multi-regions
Sensitive Data Protection treats a multi-region as one
region, and not a collection of regions. For example, the us multi-region
and the us-west1 region are treated as two separate regions as far as data
residency is concerned.
Zonal resources
Sensitive Data Protection is a regional and multi-regional service; it
doesn't distinguish between zones. For a supported zonal resource like a
Cloud SQL instance, the data is processed in its current region, but
not necessarily its current zone. For example, if a Cloud SQL instance
is stored in the us-central1-a zone, Sensitive Data Protection
processes and stores the data profiles in the us-central1 region.
For general information about Google Cloud locations, see Geography and
regions.
Data residency considerations for data from other cloud providers
Consider the following when you plan to profile data from
other cloud providers:
The data profiles are stored alongside the discovery scan
configuration. In contrast, when you profile Google Cloud data, the
profiles are stored in the same region as the data to be
profiled.
If you store your inspection template in the global region,
an in-memory copy of that template is read in the region where you
store the discovery scan configuration.
Your data is not modified. An in-memory copy of your data is
read in the region where you store the discovery scan
configuration. However, Sensitive Data Protection makes no
guarantees about where the data passes through after it reaches
the public internet. The data is encrypted with SSL.
Compliance
For information on how Sensitive Data Protection handles your data and helps you
meet compliance requirements, see Data security.
What's next
Read the Identity & Security blog post Automatic data risk management for
BigQuery using
Sensitive Data Protection.
Learn how to estimate data profiling cost.
Learn how to configure sensitive data
discovery.
Learn about how Sensitive Data Protection calculates the data risk and
sensitivity levels when profiling your data.
Learn how to remediate discovery findings.
Learn how to troubleshoot issues with the data profiler.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2026-10-07 UTC.
Products and pricing
See all products
Google Cloud pricing
Google Cloud Marketplace
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Android
Chrome
Firebase
Google AI
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Manage cookies
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
