# status 200  final_url https://docs.cloud.google.com/sensitive-data-protection/docs/concepts-hybrid-jobs  content-type text/html; charset=utf-8
Skip to main content
Documentation
close
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
/
Console
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
Sign in
Sensitive Data Protection
Start free
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Documentation
More
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Console
Discover
Product overview
Plan your data risk management strategy
Evaluate your data risk management needs
Learn about your data through discovery and inspection
Recommended strategies for mitigating data risk
Release notes
Pricing
Locations
Global and regional endpoints for Sensitive Data Protection
Sensitive Data Protection locations
Specify a processing location
Service method types
Supported file types and scanning modes
Get started
Quickstarts
Inspect text using the command-line tool
Inspect text using a JSON request
Schedule an inspection scan
Create an inspection template
De-identify and re-identify sensitive text
Google Cloud Skills Boost labs
Detect sensitive data
Discover and profile data resources
Overview of sensitive data discovery
Common discovery enablement scenarios
Allow discovery within service perimeters
Profile your data
Profile a single data resource
Profile BigQuery data
Estimate BigQuery data profiling cost
Estimate the cost of profiling BigQuery data in a project
Estimate the cost of profiling BigQuery data in an organization or folder
Profile BigQuery data in a project
Profile BigQuery data in an organization or folder
Profile Cloud SQL data
Profile Cloud SQL data in a project
Profile Cloud SQL data in an organization or folder
Manage connections
Profile Cloud Storage data
Profile Cloud Storage data in a project
Profile Cloud Storage data in an organization or folder
Profile Vertex AI data
Sensitive data discovery for Vertex AI data
Profile Vertex AI data in a project
Profile Vertex AI data in an organization or folder
Profile Amazon S3 data
Sensitive data discovery for Amazon S3 data
Profile Amazon S3 data
Profile Azure Blob Storage data
Report secrets in environment variables to Security Command Center
Grant data profiling access to a service agent
Manage data profiles
Control IAM access to resources based on data sensitivity
Send discovery insights to other services
Enable discovery actions
Send data profiles to Security Command Center
Receive and parse Pub/Sub messages about data profiles
Tag tables in Data Catalog based on insights from data profiles
Add Knowledge Catalog aspects based on insights from data profiles
Analyze and visualize data profiles
Visualize data profiles in the discovery dashboard
Analyze data profiles
Remediate findings from the data profiler
Manage scan configurations
Troubleshoot issues with the data profiler
Metrics reference
Data risk and sensitivity levels
Inspect for sensitive data
Inspect data stored in Google Cloud
Inspect data from any source
Inspect unstructured text synchronously
Inspect structured text synchronously
Inspect an image synchronously
Asynchronous inspection overview
Inspect data from any source asynchronously
Quote the sensitive data in the results
Work with inspection results
Actions
Send inspection results to Knowledge Catalog as aspects
Send inspection results to Data Catalog
Send inspection results to Security Command Center
Analyze and report on inspection findings
Query inspection findings in BigQuery
Parse findings stored as Protobuf text
Jobs and job triggers
Overview of jobs and job triggers
Create and manage jobs and job triggers
Web-based inspection demonstration app
Allow or block content based on sensitivity
Overview of content policies
Create and manage content policies
Configure detection
Templates
Overview of templates
Create inspection templates
InfoTypes and infoType detectors
Overview of infoTypes and infoType detectors
Built-in infoType detectors
List built-in infoType detectors
InfoType detector reference
Custom infoType detectors
Overview of custom infoType detectors
Create a regular custom dictionary detector
Create a large custom dictionary detector
Create a custom regex detector
Create a custom metadata label detector
Custom infoType examples
Manage infoTypes through the Google Cloud console
Modify infoType detectors to refine scan results
Match likelihood
Likelihood overview
Customize match likelihood
Mask and de-identify data
Overview
Transformation methods
Transformation reference
Text classification and redaction
Date shifting
Generalization and bucketing
Pseudonymization
De-identify sensitive data
De-identify data stored in Google Cloud
Overview
Through the Cloud console
Through the DLP API
Transformation details reference
De-identify data from any source
De-identify text or tabular content
Examples of text redaction
Examples of tabular data de-identification
Image inspection and redaction
Redact sensitive data from images
Create a de-identification template
Create a wrapped key
De-identify BigQuery data at query time
De-identification and re-identification of PII in large-scale datasets
Redact sensitive data from PDF files
Analyze re-identification risk
Overview of re-identification risk analysis
Re-identification risk analysis techniques
Compute k-anonymity for a dataset
Compute l-diversity for a dataset
Compute k-map for a dataset
Compute δ-presence for a dataset
Compute numerical and categorical statistics
Visualize re-identification risk using Data Studio
Connect to other services
Use Sensitive Data Protection with BigQuery
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Cloud Storage
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Cloud Storage
Automate the classification of data uploaded to Cloud Storage
Send inspection results to Data Catalog
Send inspection results to Security Command Center
Monitor your usage with Cloud Monitoring
Use Sensitive Data Protection with AWS S3
Use Sensitive Data Protection with JDBC Databases
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Apigee
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Data Fusion
Build a secure anomaly detection solution using Dataflow, BigQuery ML, and Sensitive Data Protection
Troubleshoot
Troubleshoot issues with the data profiler
Control access
Authentication
IAM
Access control with IAM
Sensitive Data Protection roles and permissions
Sensitive Data Protection service agents
Control access with VPC Service Controls
Monitor
Audit logging
Monitor your usage with Cloud Monitoring
Develop
All Sensitive Data Protection code samples
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Cloud Data Loss Prevention (Cloud DLP) is now a part of Sensitive Data Protection. The API name remains the same: Cloud Data Loss Prevention API (DLP API). For information about the services that make up Sensitive Data Protection, see Sensitive Data Protection overview.
Home
Documentation
Security
Sensitive Data Protection
Guides
Send feedback
Hybrid jobs and job triggers
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Hybrid jobs and job triggers encompass a set of asynchronous API methods that
allow you to scan payloads of data sent from virtually any source for sensitive
information, and then store the findings in Google Cloud. Hybrid jobs enable you
to write your own data crawlers that behave and serve data similarly to the
Sensitive Data Protection storage inspection methods.
Using hybrid jobs, you can stream data from any source to
Sensitive Data Protection. Sensitive Data Protection inspects the data for sensitive
information or PII, and then saves the inspection scan results to a
Sensitive Data Protection job resource. You can examine the scan results in the
Sensitive Data Protection Console UI or API, or you can specify post-scan actions
to run, such as saving inspection results data to a BigQuery
table or emitting a Pub/Sub notification.
The hybrid jobs workflow is summarized in the following diagram:
This conceptual topic describes hybrid jobs and job triggers and how they work.
To learn how to implement hybrid jobs and job triggers, see Inspecting external
data using hybrid jobs.
When to use hybrid jobs
The following are some common use cases:
Inspect data in hybrid and multi-cloud environments: Stream data from
on-premises databases, virtual machines, or other cloud providers into
Sensitive Data Protection while storing findings in Google Cloud.
Centralize multi-source compliance reporting: Aggregate inspection
findings from custom crawlers and distributed microservices into a single
BigQuery table for unified risk governance.
Sanitize data during cloud migrations: Inspect, validate, and track
sensitive content as datasets are migrated from legacy systems into
Google Cloud.
About hybrid environments
"Hybrid" environments are common in organizations. Many organizations store and
process sensitive data using some combination of the following:
Other cloud providers
On-premises servers or other data repositories
Non-native storage systems, such as systems running inside a virtual machine
Web and mobile apps
Google Cloud-based solutions
Using hybrid jobs, Sensitive Data Protection can inspect data sent to it from any
of these sources. Listed here are some example scenarios:
Inspect data stored in Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), MySQL
running inside a virtual machine, or an on-premises database.
Inspect and tokenize data as you migrate from on-premises to the cloud, or
between production, development, and analytics.
Inspect and redact transactions from a web or mobile application before
storing the data at rest.
Inspection options
As described in more detail in Method types,
when you want to inspect content for sensitive data, Sensitive Data Protection
provides three default options:
Content methods inspection: Using content inspection, you stream small
payloads of data to Sensitive Data Protection along with instructions about
what to inspect for. Sensitive Data Protection then inspects the data for
sensitive content and PII, and then returns the results of its scan back to
you.
Storage methods inspection: Using storage inspection, Sensitive Data Protection
inspects a Google Cloud-based storage repository such as a
BigQuery database, Cloud Storage bucket, or
Datastore kind. You tell Sensitive Data Protection what to inspect and
what to inspect for, and then Sensitive Data Protection runs a job that scans
the repository. After the scan is complete, Sensitive Data Protection saves a
summary of the results of the scan back to the job. You can additionally
specify that the results are sent to another Google Cloud product
for analysis, such as a separate BigQuery table.
Hybrid jobs inspection: Hybrid jobs provide the benefits of both of the
previous two methods. They enable you to stream data as you would with the
content methods, while gaining the storage, visualization, and actions of
storage inspection jobs. All inspection configuration is managed within
Sensitive Data Protection, with no extra configuration required on the client
side. Hybrid jobs can be useful for scanning non-native storage systems
such as a database running in a virtual machine (VM), on-premises, or on
another cloud. Hybrid methods can also be useful for inspecting processing
systems such as migration workloads, or even to proxy service-to-service
communication. While content methods can also do this, hybrid methods
provide you the findings storage backend that can aggregate your data
across multiple API calls so that you don't have to.
About hybrid jobs and job triggers
A hybrid job is effectively a hybrid of content methods and storage
methods. The basic workflow for using hybrid
jobs and job triggers is as follows:
You write a script or create a workflow that sends data to
Sensitive Data Protection for inspection along with some metadata.
You configure and create a hybrid job resource or trigger and enable it to
activate when it receives data.
Your script or workflow runs on the client side and sends data to
Sensitive Data Protection in the form of a
hybridInspect
request. The data includes an activation message and the job or job
trigger's identifier, which triggers the inspection.
Sensitive Data Protection inspects the data according to the criteria you set
in the hybrid job or trigger.
Sensitive Data Protection saves the results of the scan to the hybrid job
resource, along with metadata that you provide. You can examine the
results using the Sensitive Data Protection UI in Google Cloud console.
Optionally, Sensitive Data Protection can run post-scan actions, such as
saving inspection results data to a BigQuery table or
notifying you by email or Pub/Sub.
A hybrid job trigger enables you to create, activate, and stop jobs so that you
can trigger actions whenever you need. By ensuring that your script or code
sends data that includes the hybrid job trigger's identifier, you don't need
to update your script or code whenever a new job is started.
Typical hybrid job scenarios
Hybrid jobs are well suited for objectives such as the following:
Execute a one-off scan of a database outside of Google Cloud as
part of a quarterly spot check of databases.
Monitor all new content added on a daily basis to a database
that Sensitive Data Protection does not natively support.
Scan data coming into a database, while controlling how the data
is partitioned.
Monitor traffic in a network using
Sensitive Data Protection Filter for Envoy
(a WebAssembly HTTP filter for Envoy sidecar proxies) to identify
problematic sensitive data movement.
For information about how to approach these scenarios, see
Typical hybrid inspection scenarios.
Types of metadata you can provide
This section describes the types of metadata that you can attach to the
external data that you want to inspect or to the findings.
You can set metadata at the following levels:
The hybrid job or hybrid job trigger
The hybridInspect request
Metadata in a hybrid job or hybrid job trigger
This section describes the types of metadata that you can attach to a hybrid
job or hybrid job trigger.
Required labels
In the hybrid job or hybrid job trigger, you can specify a list of required
labels that must be included in all hybrid inspection requests that you send.
Any requests for that hybrid job or hybrid job trigger that don't include these
required labels are rejected. For more information, see Require labels from
hybridInspect requests.
Optional labels
You can specify key-value pairs to be attached to all findings
from a hybrid job or hybrid job trigger. For example, if you want all of a
hybrid job's findings to have the label "env"="prod", you specify this
key-value pair when creating the hybrid job.
Tabular data options
You can specify any columns that are row identifiers (primary keys) for table
objects in your data. If the specified columns exist in the table, the values
from the given columns are included alongside each finding so you can trace the
finding to the row it came from. These tabular options only apply to requests
that send tabular data such as an item.table or
byteItem format
like CSV.
If you know the primary keys ahead of time, you can set them as identifying
fields when you create the hybrid job or hybrid job trigger. You can list up to
three column names in the hybridOptions.tableOptions.identifyingFields field.
Metadata in a hybridInspect request
This section describes the types of metadata that you can attach to a
hybridInspect request. Metadata that you send in a hybridInspect request is
applied only to that request.
Container details
Each request that you send to a hybrid job or hybrid job trigger
can specify details about the data source,
including elements like fullPath, rootPath, relativePath, type,
version, and others. For example, if you're scanning tables in a database,
you might set the fields as follows:
{
"hybridItem": {
"item": {...},
"findingDetails": {
"containerDetails": {
"fullPath": "10.0.0.20/database1/table1",
"relativePath": "table1",
"rootPath": "10.0.0.20/database1",
"type": "postgres",
"version": "9.6"
},
"labels": {...}
}
}
}
You can't set container details at the hybrid job or hybrid job trigger level.
Required labels
If you set required labels when creating a hybrid job or hybrid job trigger,
then any hybridInspect request that you send to that hybrid job or hybrid job
trigger must include those required labels. For more information, see Require
labels from hybridInspect
requests.
Optional labels
In each hybridInspect request, you can specify key-value pairs to be attached
to any findings in that request. This method lets you attach different labels
with each hybridInspect request.
Tabular data options
You can specify any columns that are row identifiers (primary keys) for table
objects in your data. If the specified columns exist in the table, the values
from the given columns are included alongside each finding so you can trace the
finding to the row it came from. These tabular options only apply to requests
that send tabular data such as an item.table or
byteItem format
like CSV.
If you don't know the primary keys ahead of time, you don't have to set them at
the hybrid job or hybrid job trigger level. You can set them in your
hybridInspect request along with the tabular data to be inspected. Any fields
you list at the hybrid job or hybrid job trigger level are combined with those
you list in the hybridInspect request.
Supported actions
Like other Sensitive Data Protection jobs, hybrid jobs support
actions. Not all actions apply to hybrid jobs.
Following are the currently supported actions along with information about how
they work. Be aware that with the Pub/Sub, email, and
Cloud Monitoring actions, findings are made available when the job ends.
Save findings to Sensitive Data Protection and Save findings to
BigQuery: Findings are saved to a Sensitive Data Protection
resource or BigQuery table, respectively. These actions work
with hybrid jobs similarly to how they work with other job types, with one
important difference: With hybrid jobs, findings are made available while
the job is running; with other job types, findings are made available when
the job ends.
Send Pub/Sub: When a job is done, a Pub/Sub
message will be emitted.
Note:
If there are configuration or permission issues with the Pub/Sub topic,
Sensitive Data Protection retries sending the Pub/Sub notification for up to
two weeks. After two weeks, the notification is discarded.
Send Email: When a job is done, an email message will be sent.
Publish to Cloud Monitoring: When a job is done, its findings will
be published to Monitoring.
Summary
Following are some key features and benefits of using hybrid jobs and job
triggers:
Hybrid jobs enable you to stream data to Sensitive Data Protection from
virtually any source, on- or off-cloud.
Hybrid job triggers activate when Sensitive Data Protection receives a data
stream that includes an activation message and the job trigger's identifier.
You can wait until the inspection scan has completed, or you can stop the
job manually. Inspection results are saved to a Sensitive Data Protection or to
BigQuery whether you allow the job to finish or stop the job
early.
Sensitive Data Protection inspection scan results from a hybrid job trigger are
saved to a hybrid job resource within Sensitive Data Protection.
You can examine the inspection scan results by viewing the job trigger
resource within Sensitive Data Protection.
You can also instruct Sensitive Data Protection to, using an action, send
hybrid job results to a BigQuery database and notify you by
email or Pub/Sub notification.
What's next
To learn how to use hybrid jobs and job triggers to receive data for
inspection, see Sending external data to Sensitive Data Protection using
hybrid jobs.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2026-10-07 UTC.
Products and pricing
See all products
Google Cloud pricing
Google Cloud Marketplace
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Android
Chrome
Firebase
Google AI
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Manage cookies
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
