# status 200  final_url https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/foundry/responsible-ai/document-intelligence/data-privacy-security  content-type text/html
Skip to main content
Skip to Ask Learn chat experience
This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.
Download Microsoft Edge
More info about Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge
Table of contents
Exit editor mode
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Reading mode
Table of contents
Read in English
Add
Add to Plans
Edit
Copy Markdown
Print
Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try signing in or changing directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try changing directories.
Data, privacy, and security for Document Intelligence
Feedback
Summarize this article for me
In this article
Important
Non-English translations are provided for convenience only. Please consult the EN-US version of this document for the definitive version.
This article provides details regarding how Document Intelligence processes your data. Document Intelligence is designed with compliance, privacy, and security in mind. However, you are responsible for its use and the implementation of this technology. It's your responsibility to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in your jurisdiction.
How does Document Intelligence process data?
Authenticate (with subscription or API keys)
The most common way to authenticate access to Document Intelligence is by using the customer's Document Intelligence API key. Each request to the service URL must include an authentication header. This header passes along an API key (or token if applicable), which is used to validate your subscription for a service or group of services. For more information, see Authenticate requests to Foundry Tools.
Secure data in transit (for scanning)
All Foundry Tools endpoints, including the Document Intelligence API URLs, use HTTPS URLs for encrypting data during transit. The client operating system needs to support Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.3 for calling the endpoints. For more information, see Foundry Tools security.
Encrypts input data for processing
The incoming data is processed in the same region where the Document Intelligence resource was created. When you submit your documents to a Document Intelligence operation, it starts the process of analyzing the document to extract all text and identify structure and key values in a document. Your data and results are then temporarily encrypted and stored in Azure Storage.
Retrieve the results
The "Get Analyze Results" operation is authenticated against the same API key that was used to call the "Analyze" operation to ensure no other customer can access your data. It returns the analysis job completion status, When the status shows as completed, the operation also returns the extracted results in JSON format.
Data stored by Document Intelligence
For all analysis: To facilitate asynchronous analysis and checking the completion status and returning the extracted results to the customer upon completion, the data and extracted results are stored temporarily in Azure Storage in the same region. All customers in the same region share the temporary storage. The customer’s data is logically isolated from other customers with their Azure subscription and API credentials.
For customer trained models: The Custom model feature allows customers to build custom models from training data stored in customer’s Azure blob storage locations. The interim outputs after analysis and labeling are stored in the same location. The trained custom models are stored in Azure storage in the same region and logically isolated with their Azure subscription and API credentials.
Deletes data: The service stores submitted input data and analyze results for 24 hours after an analysis operation completes. Document Intelligence automatically deletes both after this retention period. To delete the data earlier, call the Delete Analyze Result API. This operation permanently deletes the submitted input data and analyze result associated with the request. This action applies to all models.
To learn more about privacy and security commitments, see the Microsoft Trust Center.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
No
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Suggest a fix?
Additional resources
Last updated on
2026-07-28
In this article
Was this page helpful?
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Suggest a fix?
en-us
Your Privacy Choices
Theme
Light
Dark
High contrast
AI Disclaimer
Previous Versions
Blog
Contribute
Privacy
Consumer Health Privacy
Terms of Use
Trademarks
© Microsoft 2026
