# status 200  final_url https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/foundry/responsible-ai/language-service/data-privacy  content-type text/html
Skip to main content
Skip to Ask Learn chat experience
This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.
Download Microsoft Edge
More info about Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge
Table of contents
Exit editor mode
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Reading mode
Table of contents
Read in English
Add
Add to Plans
Edit
Copy Markdown
Print
Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try signing in or changing directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try changing directories.
Data, privacy, and security for Azure Language in Foundry Tools
Feedback
Summarize this article for me
In this article
Important
Non-English translations are provided for convenience only. Please consult the EN-US version of this document for the definitive version.
This article provides details regarding how Azure Language in Foundry Tools processes your data. Language is designed with compliance, privacy, and security in mind. However, you are responsible for its use and the implementation of this technology. It's your responsibility to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in your jurisdiction.
What data does Language process and how does it process it?
Language processes text data that is sent by the customer to the system for the purposes of getting a response from one of the available features.
All results of the requested feature are sent back to the customer in the API response as specified in the API reference. For example, if Language Detection is requested, the language code is returned along with a confidence score for each text record.
Language uses aggregate telemetry such as which APIs are used and the number of calls from each subscription and resource for service monitoring purposes.
Language doesn't store or process customer data outside the region where the customer deploys the service instance.
Language encrypts all content, including customer data, at rest.
How is data retained and what customer controls are available?
Data sent in synchronous or asynchronous calls may be temporarily stored by Language for up to 48 hours only and is purged thereafter. This data is encrypted and is only accessible to authorized on call engineers when service support is needed for debugging purposes in the event of a catastrophic failure. To prevent this temporary storage of input data, the LoggingOptOut query parameter can be set accordingly. By default, this parameter is set to false for Language Detection, Key Phrase Extraction, Sentiment Analysis and Named Entity Recognition endpoints. The LoggingOptOut parameter is true by default for the PII and health feature endpoints. More information on the LoggingOptOut query parameter is available in the API reference.
To learn more about Microsoft's privacy and security commitments, visit the Microsoft Trust Center
See also
Transparency note for Language
Transparency note for Named Entity Recognition and Personally Identifying Information
Transparency note for the health feature
Transparency note for Key Phrase Extraction
Transparency note for Language Detection
Transparency note for Question answering
Transparency note for Summarization
Transparency note for Sentiment Analysis
Guidance for integration and responsible use with Language
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
No
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Suggest a fix?
Additional resources
Last updated on
2026-04-01
In this article
Was this page helpful?
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Suggest a fix?
en-us
Your Privacy Choices
Theme
Light
Dark
High contrast
AI Disclaimer
Previous Versions
Blog
Contribute
Privacy
Consumer Health Privacy
Terms of Use
Trademarks
© Microsoft 2026
