# status 200  final_url https://docs.cloud.google.com/model-armor/model-armor-agent-gateway-integration  content-type text/html; charset=utf-8
Skip to main content
Documentation
close
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
/
Console
English
Deutsch
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
Sign in
Model Armor
Start free
Overview
Guides
Reference
Resources
Documentation
More
Overview
Guides
Reference
Resources
Console
Discover
Product overview
Data residency and endpoints
Feature availability for templates by region
Best practices for scaling and high traffic
Retry strategy
Configure Model Armor
Create and manage templates
Configure template-specific exclusion rules
Set the filter version
Filter version history
Configure floor settings
Sanitize prompts and responses
Configure logging
View the monitoring dashboard
Control access
Access control with IAM
Roles and permissions
Service accounts
Integrate Model Armor with services or frameworks
Overview
Integrate with Agent Gateway
Integrate with Apigee
Integrate with Gemini Enterprise
Integrate with Google and Google Cloud MCP servers
Integrate with Google Cloud networking services
Integrate with Agent Platform
Integrate with LangChain
Monitor
Audit logging
Troubleshoot
Troubleshooting
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Home
Documentation
AI and ML
Model Armor
Guides
Send feedback
Integrate Model Armor with Agent Gateway
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is a platform for building and
managing enterprise-grade AI agents. Agent Gateway
serves as a control plane that manages, secures, and governs how AI agents
connect and interact within the Google Cloud environment and with external
agents, AI applications, and LLMs. The integration of Model Armor
and Agent Gateway embeds Model Armor's screening
capabilities directly into the communication pathways
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform manages. When content passes through
Agent Gateway, it invokes Model Armor to enforce your
predefined security templates. You can configure your template to either block
and redact content that violates policies, or to only inspect content and log
any violations that are detected. This mitigates risks such as prompt injection,
jailbreaks, exposure to harmful content, and sensitive data leakage.
When Model Armor detects policy violations in content passing
through Agent Gateway, it can be configured to log these events. You
can view these findings on the Model Armor page in the Google Cloud console (Go
to Model Armor). These findings are also
surfaced in Security Command Center. For more information, see Review findings in the
Google Cloud console.
When using the real-time streaming mode, Model Armor supports
unlimited tokens in the stream, making it suitable for long-running interactions
and model responses.
Limitations
Consider the following limitations when integrating Model Armor
with Agent Gateway:
Streaming support for agents: Model Armor only
supports streaming sanitization using the streamQuery method for agents
built with the Agent Development Kit.
Cross-project template usage: When using a Model Armor
template in one project to sanitize requests for a service, like
Agent Gateway, in a different project, the API quota for
Model Armor needs to be sufficient in both the project
hosting the template and the project hosting the calling service. For more
information, see Manage quota.
Regional alignment: Model Armor and the services it
integrates with must be deployed within the same Google Cloud region.
Cross-region calls to Model Armor are not supported.
Egress integration compatibility: Model Armor's inline
protection on egress traffic is limited to integrations with MCP servers,
services following the OpenAI
format, and A2A through
Agent Gateway.
Ingress integration compatibility: Inline ingress protection with
Model Armor is only supported for agents built using ADK.
No document support: Sanitizing prompts and responses that contain
documents or file uploads (such as PDFs) isn't supported in this integration.
To screen documents, call the Model Armor REST API
directly.
Supported payloads: For a list of supported payloads, see Supported and unsupported
payloads in this document.
Configure Model Armor on a gateway
To configure Model Armor on a gateway, follow these steps:
Enable the Model Armor API
in the project where you want to create the Model Armor
templates.
Create one or more Model Armor
templates in the same
region where you plan to add the gateway. You can use the same template
for both ingress and egress traffic.
Take note of the template names. To copy the name of a template in the
Google Cloud console, view the template's
details and click content_copy Copy to clipboard next to
the template name.
Set up Agent Gateway in the same region where the
Model Armor templates are stored. For the Client-to-Agent
(ingress)
gateway,
specify the
Model Armor templates that you created for ingress traffic.
For the Agent-to-Anywhere (egress)
gateway,
specify the Model Armor templates that you created for egress
traffic. You can use the same template for both traffic flows.
Grant the required IAM roles to the
appropriate service agents:
Client-to-Agent (ingress): Grant the AI Platform Reasoning Engine
Service
Agent
service agent the following roles:
The Model Armor Callout User (roles/modelarmor.calloutUser) role in
the project that
contains the AI agent.
The Model Armor User (roles/modelarmor.user) role in the
project that contains the Model Armor template.
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding AGENT_RUNTIME_PROJECT_ID \
--member=serviceAccount:service-AGENT_RUNTIME_PROJECT_NUMBER@gcp-sa-aiplatform-re.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
--role=roles/modelarmor.calloutUser
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding MODEL_ARMOR_PROJECT_ID \
--member=serviceAccount:service-AGENT_RUNTIME_PROJECT_NUMBER@gcp-sa-aiplatform-re.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
--role=roles/modelarmor.user
Replace the following:
AGENT_RUNTIME_PROJECT_ID: The project ID of the
project where you created the agent.
AGENT_RUNTIME_PROJECT_NUMBER: The project number of
the project where you created the agent.
MODEL_ARMOR_PROJECT_ID: The project ID of the
project that contains the Model Armor template.
Agent-to-Anywhere (egress): Grant the Service Extensions
service agent the following roles:
The Model Armor Callout User (roles/modelarmor.calloutUser) and
Service Usage Consumer (roles/serviceusage.serviceUsageConsumer) roles
in the project that contains the gateway.
The Model Armor User (roles/modelarmor.user) role in the project
that contains the Model Armor template.
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding GATEWAY_PROJECT_ID \
--member=serviceAccount:service-GATEWAY_PROJECT_NUMBER@gcp-sa-dep.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
--role=roles/modelarmor.calloutUser
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding GATEWAY_PROJECT_ID \
--member=serviceAccount:service-GATEWAY_PROJECT_NUMBER@gcp-sa-dep.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
--role=roles/serviceusage.serviceUsageConsumer
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding MODEL_ARMOR_PROJECT_ID \
--member=serviceAccount:service-GATEWAY_PROJECT_NUMBER@gcp-sa-dep.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
--role=roles/modelarmor.user
Replace the following:
GATEWAY_PROJECT_ID: The project ID of the
project where you created the gateway.
GATEWAY_PROJECT_NUMBER: The project number of
the project where you created the gateway.
MODEL_ARMOR_PROJECT_ID: The project ID of the
project that contains the Model Armor template.
For instructions, see Delegate authorization to
Model Armor.
For general information about how to grant a role, see Grant a single
IAM
role.
Ingress and egress traffic
In the context of Agent Gateway and Model Armor
integration, the terms ingress and egress are used from the perspective of
the AI agent's interactions:
Ingress Traffic (Client-to-Agent): Refers to the communication flow
between a client and the agent. Model Armor can protect both
the incoming requests from the client to the agent and the outgoing
responses from the agent back to the client.
Egress Traffic (Agent-to-Anywhere): Refers to the communication flow
between the agent and an external system. Model Armor can
protect both the outgoing requests from the agent to the external system
and the incoming responses from the external system back to the agent.
Client-to-Agent (ingress) protection
You define templates that Model Armor uses to evaluate:
Incoming requests from the client (end users or calling applications) to
your AI agent.
Outgoing responses from the AI agent back to the client.
You can apply a single template to both directions or configure different
templates for each.
Traffic flow for Client-to-Agent
A client sends a prompt to the agent. Agent Gateway intercepts the
request and sends the payload to Model Armor.
Model Armor screens the request. If blocked, the client
receives an error.
If allowed, the request reaches the AI agent.
The AI agent generates a response. Agent Gateway intercepts this
response before it reaches the client.
Model Armor screens the response, and Agent Gateway
either allows or blocks it based on the verdict.
Agent-to-Anywhere (egress) protection
You define templates that Model Armor uses to evaluate:
Outgoing requests from your AI agent to external systems.
Incoming responses from external systems back to your AI agent.
This protection applies to communications with systems including:
External LLMs and third-party AI agents
Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers
Other AI agents
Traffic flow for Agent-to-Anywhere
The AI agent initiates a request to an external system.
Agent Gateway intercepts the outgoing traffic.
Model Armor screens the outgoing payload. If blocked, the
connection is terminated.
If allowed, the request is sent to the external system.
The external system sends a response back. Agent Gateway intercepts
this incoming response.
Model Armor screens the response payload, and
Agent Gateway either allows it to reach the agent or blocks it.
For more information, see Configure Model Armor on a gateway.
Track and debug streaming requests
To facilitate tracking and debugging of streaming requests,
Model Armor uses a correlation ID and a trace ID.
Use a trace ID
A trace ID connects all events for a single request as it travels across
multiple services in a distributed system. This includes the security
enforcements that Model Armor applies within the request path of
the Agent Gateway resource.
Each trace contains one or more spans, where each span ID represents a specific
operation or unit of work within the trace. Logs generated during the execution
of a request are associated with the specific span ID of the operation performing
the work.
A trace ID is handled in two ways:
Automatic: When Google Cloud Observability is enabled, Agent Gateway
automatically generates a trace ID and propagates it through the system.
User-provided: You can override the system-generated trace ID by providing
your own using the traceparent HTTP header in your requests.
The following code sample shows how to pass a custom trace ID in a request to
the streamQuery method:
curl -X POST \
-H "Authorization: Bearer $(gcloud auth print-access-token)" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "traceparent: 00-98adffecc8dd095968a06c44216190f6-5b565a8342378cd7-01" \
"https://LOCATION-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/PROJECT_ID/locations/LOCATION/reasoningEngines/REASONING_ENGINE_ID:streamQuery?alt=sse"
Replace the following:
LOCATION: the region where the reasoning engine is
located.
PROJECT_ID: the ID of your Google Cloud project.
REASONING_ENGINE_ID: the ID of your reasoning engine.
Using a trace ID is the recommended method to correlate logs and traces
end-to-end from the caller through Agent Gateway to
Model Armor and any downstream agents. This is essential for
debugging, understanding security actions, and monitoring performance. For more
information, see View Model Armor trace
spans.
To view sanitization operation logs for a specific trace ID, use the following
query in the Logs Explorer:
jsonPayload.@type="type.googleapis.com/google.cloud.modelarmor.logging.v1.SanitizeOperationLogEntry"
trace:TRACE_ID
Replace TRACE_ID with the trace ID of your request.
Use a correlation ID
A correlation ID links together all log entries in Cloud Logging that
pertain to a single streaming sanitization session, from the initial request to
the final response. It is an internal identifier primarily used within
Model Armor logs, specifically for ingress streaming sessions.
For more information, see Correlate logs and related
events.
Supported and unsupported payloads
This section lists the types of payloads that Model Armor
sanitizes.
Client-to-Agent (ingress) traffic
For Client-to-Agent (ingress) traffic using the ADK protocol,
Model Armor sanitizes only
reasoningEngines.streamQuery
requests and responses for agents that were built using
Agent Development Kit (ADK) and are running on Agent Runtime.
All other
ReasoningEngine
payloads and ReasoningEngine error responses aren't sent to
Model Armor. Non-ADK payloads (such as Langchain payloads) are
also not sent to Model Armor.
Agent-to-Anywhere (egress) traffic
For Agent-to-Anywhere (egress) traffic, the following payloads are supported.
A2A payloads
Model Armor sanitizes only the following payloads of the A2A
v1 protocol:
Send
Message
operations
Agent Card
Get Extended Agent
Card
operations
JSON-RPC
protocol bindings
HTTP+JSON/REST
protocol bindings
Model Armor allows the following A2A payloads without
sanitization:
Payloads from A2A versions earlier than v1
SendStreamingMessage
GetTask
ListTasks
CancelTask
SubscribeToTask
CRUD
methods
on TaskPushNotificationConfig
Payloads using A2A
gRPC
protocol binding (protobuf on the wire)
A2A error payloads
MCP payloads
Model Armor sanitizes only the following MCP payloads:
tools/call request and response
prompts/get request and response
MCP tool execution errors
(target for prompt injection by malicious MCP tools authors)
Model Armor allows the following payloads without sanitization:
tools/list
resources/*
notifications/*
Streamable HTTP/SSE for MCP
MCP protocol errors (for example, all errors other than tool
execution errors)
External LLM payloads
Model Armor sanitizes only the following payloads of the
OpenAI API protocol (egress), which includes GPT models on openai.com as well
as any other models through OpenAI API-compatible LLM servers (such as
vLLM).
Payloads that aren't listed here are allowed without sanitization.
Chat
completions:
Create, Delete, Get, List, and Update (non-streaming variants only)
Get chat
messages
Responses:
Create, Get, and Delete (non-streaming variants only)
OpenAI API
errors
(including vLLM's
variant)
Legacy
Completions
Legacy
Assistants:
Create, Delete, List, Modify, and Retrieve
Legacy
Messages:
Create, Delete, List, Modify, and Retrieve
Legacy Threads:
Create, Delete, Modify, and Retrieve
Embeddings:
Create
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2026-10-06 UTC.
Products and pricing
See all products
Google Cloud pricing
Google Cloud Marketplace
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Android
Chrome
Firebase
Google AI
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Manage cookies
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe
English
Deutsch
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
