# status 200  final_url https://docs.cloud.google.com/logging/docs/audit  content-type text/html; charset=utf-8
Skip to main content
Documentation
close
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
/
Console
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
Sign in
Cloud Logging
Start free
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Documentation
More
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Console
Discover
Cloud Logging overview
Try it!
Quickstart: Logging for Compute Engine VMs
Quickstart: Write and query logs with the gcloud CLI
Quickstart: Write and query logs using a Python script
Learn fundamentals
Log entry data model
Store log entries
Route log entries
Query and view log entries
Set org and folder defaults
Configure default resource settings
Configure CMEK for Logging
Use custom organization policies
Collect and write logs
Which should you use: agent or client library?
Structured logging
Collect logs from VMs and third-party applications by using the Ops Agent
Ops Agent overview
Install the Ops Agent
All installation methods
Install the Ops Agent during VM creation
Install and manage the Ops Agent by using VM Extension Manager policies
Install the Ops Agent on a fleet of VMs by using agent policies
Overview
Use agent policies (GA)
Use agent policies (beta)
Install the Ops Agent on a fleet of VMs by using automation tools
Install the Ops Agent on individual VMs
Manage the Ops Agent
Authorize the Ops Agent
Configure the Ops Agent
Use the Telemetry API to collect logs, metrics, and traces
Use log rotation for Ops Agent self logs
Manage VMs covered the Ops Agent OS policy
Collect logs from third-party applications
Overview
Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS)
Aerospike
Apache ActiveMQ
Apache Cassandra
Apache CouchDB
Apache Flink
Apache Hadoop
Apache HBase
Apache Kafka
Apache Solr
Apache Tomcat
Apache Web Server (httpd)
Apache ZooKeeper
Couchbase
Elasticsearch 7.9+
Elasticsearch 8.0+ and 9.0+
Hashicorp Vault
Internet Information Services
Jetty
MariaDB
Memcached
MongoDB
MySQL
nginx
Oracle Database
PostgreSQL
RabbitMQ
Redis
SAP HANA
Varnish HTTP Cache
WildFly
Collect on-premises and multi-cloud logs
Collect Kubernetes Engine logs
Write application logs
Logging libraries overview
C#: Use .NET logging frameworks or the API
Java: Use Logback or java.util.logging
Go: Use standard logging
Node.js: Use Winston and Bunyan
PHP: Use PSR-3 logger
Python: Use standard logging
Ruby: Use the Stackdriver gem
Control access
Configure a log scope
Access control with IAM
Use tags to manage access to log buckets
Configure field-level access on log buckets
Query, analyze, and view logs
Logs Explorer: Query and view logs
Logs Explorer overview
Build queries using the Logging query language
Summarize log entries with Gemini assistance
Correlate log entries
Find log entries with error groups
Logging query language
Sample queries and examples
Sample queries
Example: Detect Log4Shell security exploits
Observability Analytics: Query and analyze logs
Query and analyze logs in Observability Analytics
Chart SQL query results
Save and share SQL queries
Analytics views
About analytics views
Create, query, and manage analytics views
Sample queries and examples
Sample SQL queries
Analyze log volume
SQL queries for security insights
Analyze log data with BigQuery
Create a linked BigQuery dataset
Query log data by using BigQuery Studio
Run analytics queries on the BigQuery Engine
Monitor your SQL query results with an alerting policy
Data security
View logs in supported destinations
View logs routed to Logging buckets
View logs routed to BigQuery
View logs routed to Cloud Storage
View logs routed to Pub/Sub
Use the Logging MCP server
Use the Logging remote MCP server
Visualize, stream, and monitor logs
Visualize log severity and error metrics
Stream and tail log entries
Monitor your logs
Monitor your logs overview
Create metrics from logs
Log-based metrics overview
List and chart log-based metrics
Bucket-scoped log-based metrics
Configure counter metrics
Configure distribution metrics
Configure labels on log-based metrics
Configure notifications for log-based metrics
Create alerting policies that monitor logs
Configure log-based alerting policies
Manage alerts for log-based alerting policies
Manage alerts for SQL-based alerting policies
Store logs in log buckets
Configure log buckets
Configure CMEK for log buckets
Configure log views on a log bucket
Improve query times with custom indexing
Route logs to destinations
Configure log sinks
Route logs to supported destinations
Configure log sinks with user-managed service accounts
Route logs to third-party destinations
Configure sinks for folders and organizations
Aggregated sinks overview
Collate and route organization-level logs to supported destinations
Tutorial: Aggregate and store your organization's logs
Batch and route logs retroactively
Regionalize your logs
Cloud Audit Logs
Cloud Audit Logs overview
Services with audit logs
Enable Data Access audit logs
Audit logs in depth
Understand audit logs
Split log entries
Best practices
Cloud Logging audit logs
Google Workspace audit logs
Workspace audit logs overview
View and manage Workspace audit logs
Login Audit samples
Audit logs datatypes
AuditLog
Types
AuditLog
PolicyType
App Engine AuditData
Types
ApiConfigHandler
ApiEndpointHandler
AuditData
AuthFailAction
ErrorCode
FileInfo
InboundServiceType
LoginRequirement
RedirectHttpResponseCode
RolloutStrategy
SecurityLevel
ServingStatus
ShardBy
App Engine AuditData (legacy)
Types
AuditData
BigQuery AuditData
Types
AuditData
LogType
IAM AuditData
Types
AuditData
Troubleshoot
Troubleshoot collecting and writing logs
Troubleshoot the Ops Agent
Overview
Find troubleshooting information
Troubleshoot credentials
Troubleshoot installation and start-up
Troubleshoot data ingestion
Troubleshoot routing and storage
Troubleshoot CMEK and default settings
Troubleshoot monitoring logs
Troubleshoot log-based alerting policies
Troubleshoot log-based metrics
Troubleshoot querying and viewing logs
Troubleshoot Logs Explorer
Troubleshoot Logging query language
Troubleshoot Observability Analytics
Troubleshoot Workspace audit logs
Other Google Cloud Observability documentation
Google Cloud Observability
Cloud Monitoring
Error Reporting
Cloud Trace
Cloud Profiler
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Home
Documentation
Observability
Cloud Logging
Guides
Send feedback
Cloud Audit Logs overview
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Google Cloud services write audit logs that record administrative activities
and resource access. You can use Cloud Audit Logs to answer
"who did what, where, and when?" within your Google Cloud resources
with the same level of transparency as in on-premises environments. These
audit logs help your security, auditing, and compliance teams monitor
Google Cloud data and systems for vulnerabilities or data misuse.
Google Cloud services producing audit logs
For a list of Google Cloud services that provide audit logs, see
Google Cloud services with audit logs. All
Google Cloud services will eventually provide audit logs.
Google Cloud MCP servers write Data Access audit logs. Data Access audit logs
written by Google Cloud MCP servers API calls are service-specific and use the format
SERVICE_NAME.googleapis.com/mcp. You can enable these Data Access logs
by turning on audit logging for mcp.googleapis.com in
the IAM AuditConfig object.
For more information about audit logging for Google Cloud MCP servers, see
Google Cloud MCP servers audit logging.
For an overview of Google Workspace audit logs, see
Audit logs for Google Workspace.
Required roles
To view audit logs, you must have the appropriate
Identity and Access Management (IAM) permissions and roles:
To get the permissions that
you need to get read-only access to Admin Activity, Policy Denied, and
System Event audit logs,
ask your administrator to grant you the
Logs Viewer (roles/logging.viewer) IAM role on your project.
If you have only the Logs Viewer role (roles/logging.viewer), then you
cannot view Data Access audit logs that are in the _Default bucket.
To get the permissions that
you need to get access to all logs in the _Required and _Default
buckets, including Data Access logs,
ask your administrator to grant you the
Private Logs Viewer (roles/logging.privateLogViewer) IAM role on your project.
The Private Logs Viewer role (roles/logging.privateLogViewer) includes the
permissions contained in the Logs Viewer role (roles/logging.viewer),
and those necessary to read Data Access audit logs in the _Default bucket.
For more information about the IAM permissions and roles that
apply to audit logs data, see
Access control with IAM.
Types of audit logs
Cloud Audit Logs provides the following audit logs for each
Google Cloud project, folder, and organization:
Admin Activity audit logs
Data Access audit logs
System Event audit logs
Policy Denied audit logs
Note: Log entries written by Cloud Audit Logs are immutable.
Admin Activity audit logs
Admin Activity audit logs are log entries written by user-driven API calls
or other actions that modify the configuration or metadata of resources. For
example, these logs record when users create VM instances or change Identity and Access Management
permissions.
Admin Activity audit logs are always written; you can't configure, exclude, or
disable them. Even if you disable the Cloud Logging API, Admin Activity audit
logs are still generated.
For a list of services that write Admin Activity audit logs and detailed
information about which activities generate those logs, see
Google Cloud services with audit logs.
Data Access audit logs
Note: Data Access audit logs help the Cloud Customer Care team troubleshoot
issues with your account. Therefore, we recommend keeping them enabled. For more
Cloud Audit Logs best practices, see
Cloud Audit Logs best practices.
Data Access audit logs are log entries written by API calls that read the
configuration or metadata of resources. They are also written by user-driven
API calls that create, modify, or read user-provided resource data.
Publicly available resources that have the Identity and Access Management policies
allAuthenticatedUsers or
allUsers don't generate audit logs. Resources
that can be accessed without logging into a Google Cloud account,
Google Workspace, Cloud Identity, or Drive Enterprise account don't
generate audit logs. This helps protect end-user identities and information.
Except for BigQuery, Data Access audit logs are disabled by default
because they can generate large volumes of data. To record Data Access
audit logs for Google Cloud services other than
BigQuery, you must explicitly enable them. Data Access audit logs
are written to the Google Cloud project whose data is accessed.
Enabling these logs might result in your Google Cloud project being
charged for additional log usage. For instructions on enabling and
configuring Data Access audit logs, see
Enable Data Access audit logs.
For a list of services that write Data Access audit logs and detailed
information about which activities generate those logs, see
Google Cloud services with audit logs.
Data Access audit logs are stored in the
_Default log bucket unless
you've routed them elsewhere. For more information, see the
Storing and routing audit logs
section of this page.
System Event audit logs
System Event audit logs are log entries written by Google Cloud systems
and managed service agents
that modify the configuration of resources. System Event audit logs aren't
driven by direct user action. For example, a System Event audit log is written
when VMs are automatically added to or removed from managed instance groups
(MIGs) due to autoscaling.
System Event audit logs are always written; you can't configure, exclude, or
disable them.
For a list of services that write System Event audit logs and detailed
information about which activities generate those logs, see
Google Cloud services with audit logs.
Policy Denied audit logs
Policy Denied audit logs are log entries written when a Google Cloud service
denies access to a user or service account because of a
security policy violation.
Policy Denied audit logs are generated by default and your
Google Cloud project is charged for log storage. You can't disable Policy
Denied audit logs, but you can use
exclusion filters to prevent Policy
Denied audit logs from being stored in Cloud Logging.
For a list of services that write Policy Denied audit logs and detailed
information about which activities generate those logs, see
Google Cloud services with audit logs.
Audit log entry structure
Every audit log entry in Cloud Logging is an object of type
LogEntry. What distinguishes an audit log entry from other log
entries is the protoPayload field; this field contains an
AuditLog object that stores the audit logging data.
To understand how to read and interpret audit log entries, and to view a sample
entry, see Understanding audit logs.
Log name
Cloud Audit Logs log names include the following:
Resource identifiers indicating the Google Cloud project or
other Google Cloud entity that owns the audit logs.
The string cloudaudit.googleapis.com.
A string that indicates whether the log contains Admin Activity, Data Access,
Policy Denied, or System Event audit logging data.
The following are the audit log names, including variables for the resource
identifiers:
projects/PROJECT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Factivity
projects/PROJECT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fdata_access
projects/PROJECT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fsystem_event
projects/PROJECT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fpolicy
folders/FOLDER_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Factivity
folders/FOLDER_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fdata_access
folders/FOLDER_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fsystem_event
folders/FOLDER_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fpolicy
billingAccounts/BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Factivity
billingAccounts/BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fdata_access
billingAccounts/BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fsystem_event
billingAccounts/BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fpolicy
organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Factivity
organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fdata_access
organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fsystem_event
organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fpolicy
Caller identities in audit logs
Audit logs record the identity that performed the logged operations on the
Google Cloud resource. The caller's identity is held in the
AuthenticationInfo field of AuditLog objects.
Audit logging doesn't redact the caller's principal email address for any
access that succeeds or for any write operation.
For read-only operations that fail with a "permission denied" error,
Audit logging might redact the caller's principal email address unless the
caller is a service account.
In addition to the conditions listed above, the following applies to certain
Google Cloud services:
Legacy App Engine API: Identities aren't
collected.
BigQuery: Caller
identities and IP addresses, as well as some resource names, are redacted
from the audit logs, unless certain conditions are met.
Cloud Storage: When Cloud Storage
usage logs are enabled, Cloud Storage writes usage data to the
Cloud Storage bucket, which generates Data Access audit logs for the
bucket. The generated Data Access audit log has its caller identity
redacted.
Firestore: If a JSON Web Token (JWT)
was used for third-party authentication, then the thirdPartyPrincipal
field includes the token's header and payload. For example, audit logs for
requests authenticated with Firebase Authentication include that
request's auth token.
VPC Service Controls: For
Policy Denied audit logs, the following redaction occurs:
Parts of the caller email addresses might be redacted and replaced by
three period characters ....
Some caller email addresses belonging to the domain google.com are
redacted and replaced by google-internal.
Organization Policy:
Parts of the caller email addresses might be redacted and replaced by
three period characters ....
IP address of the caller in audit logs
The IP address of the caller is held in the RequestMetadata.callerIp field of
the AuditLog object:
For a caller from the internet, the address is a public IPv4 or IPv6
address.
For calls made from inside the internal production network from one
Google Cloud service to another, the callerIp is redacted to "private".
This includes calls made by Google-owned service accounts (service agents)
even when initiated by a user, or calls initiated by Google's internal
infrastructure.
For a caller from a Compute Engine VM with an external IP address, the
callerIp is the external address of the VM. This applies to both standard
VMs and Google-managed VMs, such as Google Kubernetes Engine nodes. In
multi-service flows, such as Cloud Logging calling Cloud KMS,
the service propagates the immediate caller's origin unless
explicit identity delegation is configured.
As a result, an external address might appear instead of "private".
For a caller from a Compute Engine VM without an external IP address, if
the VM is in the same organization or project as the accessed resource, then
callerIp is the VM's internal IPv4 address. Otherwise, the callerIp is
redacted to "gce-internal-ip". For more information, see
VPC network overview.
Viewing audit logs
You can query for all audit logs or you can query for logs by their
audit log name. The audit log name includes the
resource identifier
of the Google Cloud project, folder, billing account, or
organization for which you want to view audit logging information.
Your queries can specify indexed LogEntry fields.
For more information about querying your logs, see
Build queries in the Logs Explorer
The Logs Explorer lets you view filter individual log entries. If you want
to use SQL to analyze groups of log entries, then use the Log Analytics
page. For more information, see:
Query and view logs in Observability Analytics.
Sample queries for security insights.
Chart query results.
Most audit logs can be viewed in Cloud Logging by using the
Google Cloud console, the Google Cloud CLI, or the Logging API.
However, for audit logs related to billing, you can only use the
Google Cloud CLI or the Logging API.
Console
In the Google Cloud console, you can use the Logs Explorer
to retrieve your audit log entries for your Google Cloud project, folder,
or organization:
In the Google Cloud console, go to the
segment
Logs Explorer page:
Go to Logs Explorer
If you use the search bar to find this page, then select the result whose subheading is
Logging.
Select an existing Google Cloud project, folder, or organization.
To display all audit logs, enter either of the following queries
into the query-editor field, and then click Run query:
logName:"cloudaudit.googleapis.com"
protoPayload."@type"="type.googleapis.com/google.cloud.audit.AuditLog"
To display the audit logs for a specific resource and audit log type,
in the Query builder pane, do the following:
In Resource type, select the Google Cloud resource whose
audit logs you want to see.
In Log name, select the audit log type that you want to see:
For Admin Activity audit logs, select activity.
For Data Access audit logs, select data_access.
For System Event audit logs, select system_event.
For Policy Denied audit logs, select policy.
Click Run query.
If you don't see these options, then there aren't any audit logs of
that type available in the Google Cloud project, folder, or
organization.
If you're experiencing issues when trying to view logs in the
Logs Explorer, see the
troubleshooting
information.
For more information about querying by using the Logs Explorer, see
Build queries in the Logs Explorer.
gcloud
The Google Cloud CLI provides a command-line interface to the
Logging API. Supply a valid resource identifier in each of the log
names. For example, if your query includes a PROJECT_ID, then the
project identifier you supply must refer to the currently selected
Google Cloud project.
To read your Google Cloud project-level audit log entries, run
the following command:
gcloud logging read "logName : projects/PROJECT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com" \
--project=PROJECT_ID
To read your folder-level audit log entries, run the following command:
gcloud logging read "logName : folders/FOLDER_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com" \
--folder=FOLDER_ID
To read your organization-level audit log entries, run the following
command:
gcloud logging read "logName : organizations/ORGANIZATION_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com" \
--organization=ORGANIZATION_ID
To read your Cloud Billing account-level audit log entries, run the following command:
gcloud logging read "logName : billingAccounts/BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com" \
--billing-account=BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID
Add the --freshness flag
to your command to read logs that are more than 1 day old.
For more information about using the gcloud CLI, see
gcloud logging read.
REST
When building your queries, supply a valid resource identifier in each of
the log names. For example, if your query includes a PROJECT_ID,
then the project identifier you supply must refer to the currently selected
Google Cloud project.
For example, to use the Logging API to view your project-level
audit log entries, do the following:
Go to the Try this API section in the documentation for the
entries.list method.
Put the following into the Request body part of the Try this
API form. Clicking this prepopulated form
automatically fills the request body, but you need to supply a valid
PROJECT_ID in each of the log names.
{
"resourceNames": [
"projects/PROJECT_ID"
],
"pageSize": 5,
"filter": "logName : projects/PROJECT_ID/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com"
}
Click Execute.
Storing and routing audit logs
Cloud Logging uses log buckets as
containers that store and organize your logs data. For each billing account,
Google Cloud project, folder, and organization, Logging
automatically creates two log buckets, _Required and _Default, and
correspondingly named sinks.
Cloud Logging _Required buckets store Admin Activity audit logs
and System Event audit logs. You can't prevent Admin Activity or System Event
audit logs from being stored. You also can't configure the sink that routes
log entries to the _Required buckets.
Admin Activity audit logs and System Event audit logs are always stored in the
_Required bucket in the project where the logs were generated.
If you route Admin Activity audit logs and System Event audit logs to a
different project, then those logs don't pass through the destination
project's _Default or _Required sink. Consequently, the logs aren't stored
in the destination project.
To store these logs, create a log sink in the destination project.
For more information, see Route logs to supported destinations.
The _Default buckets, by default, store any enabled Data Access
audit logs as well as Policy Denied audit logs. To prevent Data Access audit
logs from being stored in the _Default buckets, you can disable them. To
prevent any Policy Denied audit logs from being stored in the _Default
buckets, you can exclude them by modifying their sinks' filters.
You can also route your audit log entries to user-defined
Cloud Logging buckets at the Google Cloud project level or to supported
destinations outside of Logging using sinks. For instructions
on routing logs, see
Route logs to supported destinations.
When configuring your log sinks' filters, you need to specify the audit log
types you want to route; for filtering examples, see
Security logging queries.
For information about routing audit log entries for a Google Cloud
organization, folder, or billing account, and for their children, see
Aggregated sinks overview.
Audit log retention
For details on how long log entries are retained by Logging,
see the retention information in
Quotas and limits: Logs retention periods.
Access control
IAM permissions and roles determine your ability to access audit
logs data in the Logging API, the
Logs Explorer, and the
Google Cloud CLI.
For detailed information about the IAM permissions and roles you
might need, see Access control with IAM.
Quotas and limits
For details on logging usage limits, including the maximum sizes of audit logs,
see Quotas and limits.
Pricing
For pricing information, see Google Cloud Observability pricing page. If you route log data to
other Google Cloud services, then see the following documents:
Cloud Storage pricing
BigQuery pricing
Pub/Sub pricing
What's next
Learn how to
read and understand audit logs.
Learn how to
enable Data Access audit logs.
Review best practices for
Cloud Audit Logs.
Learn about Access Transparency,
which provides logs of actions taken by Google Cloud staff when accessing
your Google Cloud content.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2026-10-08 UTC.
Products and pricing
See all products
Google Cloud pricing
Google Cloud Marketplace
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Android
Chrome
Firebase
Google AI
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Manage cookies
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
