# status 200  final_url https://cloud.google.com/terms/services  content-type text/html; charset=utf-8
Back to Google Cloud Terms Directory
Current
Google Cloud Services Summary
For translations of this Google Cloud Services Summary into other languages, please click on the appropriate link: Bahasa Indonesia, Deutsch, Español (Latinoamérica), Français, Italiano, Nederlands, Português, 한국어, 日本語
The complete list of services that form Google Cloud Platform and SecOps Services is shown below. While Google offers many other services and APIs, only the services below are covered under the agreement pursuant to which Google has agreed to provide Google Cloud Platform or SecOps Services, service level agreements (if applicable), and support offerings (the "Agreement"). Offerings identified below as Software or Premium Software are not Services under the Agreement or the Cloud Data Processing Addendum.
For the avoidance of doubt, Services listed under "Google Cloud Platform Services Summary" are not SecOps Services and vice versa.
Services marked in *asterisks* are not available for resale under the Google Cloud Partner Advantage program, unless specifically authorized in writing by Google.
Google Cloud Platform Services Summary
Expand all
Compute
App Engine: App Engine enables you to build and host applications on the same systems that power Google applications. App Engine offers fast development and deployment; simple administration, with no need to worry about hardware, patches or backups; and effortless scalability.
Batch: Batch is a fully-managed service that allows you to create batch jobs at scale. The service dynamically provisions certain Google Cloud resources, schedules your batch job on the resources, manages the queue for the job, and executes the job. Batch is natively integrated with Google Cloud services for storage, logging, monitoring, and more.
Blockchain Node Engine: Blockchain Node Engine is a fully-managed node-hosting service for Web3 development.
Cluster Director: Cluster Director automates the complex setup and configuration of clusters, helping you configure compute, networking, and storage resources for your clusters to maximize performance and minimize downtimes.
Compute Engine: Compute Engine offers scalable and flexible virtual machine computing capabilities in the cloud, with options to utilize certain CPUs, GPUs, or Cloud TPUs. You can use Compute Engine to solve large-scale processing and analytic problems on Google's computing, storage, and networking infrastructure.
Google Cloud VMware Engine (GCVE): GCVE is a managed VMware-as-a-Service that is specifically designed for running VMware workloads on Google Cloud Platform. GCVE enables customers to run VMware virtual machines natively in a dedicated, private, software-defined data center.
License Manager: License Manager lets you subscribe, manage, and track your third-party license usage on Google Cloud. As an administrator, you can use License Manager to offer per-user licensing products to your users with no long-term commitments and no overhead of managing compliance.
VM Manager: VM Manager is a suite of tools that enables you to manage operating systems for virtual machine fleets running Windows and Linux on Compute Engine.
Workload Manager: Workload Manager is a rule-based validation service for evaluating workloads running on Google Cloud. If enabled, Workload Manager scans application workloads to detect deviations from standards, rules, and best practices that improve system quality, reliability, and performance.
Storage
Backup for GKE: Backup for GKE enables data protection for workloads running in Google Kubernetes Engine clusters.
Cloud Managed Lustre: Cloud Managed Lustre is a fully managed parallel file system designed for Artificial Intelligence (AI) and High-Performance Computing (HPC) applications. Powered by DDN's EXAScaler technology, Managed Lustre delivers high-performance and low-latency storage for data-intensive workloads while eliminating the operational overhead of self-managed systems. The service integrates with Compute Engine and Google Kubernetes Engine to mount storage to virtual machines and containerized workloads.
Cloud Storage: Cloud Storage is a RESTful service for storing and accessing your data on Google's infrastructure. The service combines the performance and scalability of Google's cloud with advanced security and sharing capabilities.
Persistent Disk: Persistent Disk is a durable and high performance block storage service for Google Cloud Platform. Persistent Disk provides SSD and HDD storage that can be attached to instances running in either Compute Engine or Google Kubernetes Engine.
Filestore: Cloud Filestore is a scalable and highly available shared file service fully-managed by Google. Cloud Filestore provides persistent storage ideal for shared workloads. It is best suited for enterprise applications requiring persistent, durable, shared storage which is accessed by NFS or requires a POSIX compliant file system.
*Cloud Storage for Firebase: Cloud Storage for Firebase adds customizable Google security (via Firebase Security Rules for Cloud Storage) to file uploads and downloads for your Firebase apps, as well as robust uploads and downloads regardless of network quality through the Firebase SDK. Cloud Storage for Firebase is backed by Cloud Storage, a service for storing and accessing your data on Google's infrastructure.
Google Cloud NetApp Volumes: Google Cloud NetApp Volumes is a fully-managed file service powered by NetApp, based on ONTAP, that enables high-performance storage with SMB, NFS, and Multi-protocol file support for file sharing, business applications, and enterprise workloads.
Databases
AlloyDB: AlloyDB is a fully-managed, PostgreSQL-compatible database for demanding transactional and analytical workloads. It is designed to provide enterprise-grade performance and availability while maintaining compatibility with open-source PostgreSQL.
Bigtable: Bigtable is a fast, fully-managed, highly-scalable NoSQL database service. It is designed for the collection and retention of data from 1TB to hundreds of PB.
Firestore: Firestore is a serverless, highly-scalable NoSQL document database. It is designed for enterprise-grade performance and availability while offering a MongoDB compatible API as well as mobile and web client libraries with live and offline sync capabilities. Firestore is the successor to Datastore and offers a Datastore compatible API.
Memorystore: Memorystore, which includes Memorystore for Redis, Memorystore for Memcached, Memorystore for Redis Cluster, and Memorystore for Valkey provides a fully-managed in-memory data store service that allows customers to deploy distributed caches that provide sub-millisecond data access.
Spanner: Spanner is a fully-managed, mission-critical relational database service. It is designed to provide a scalable online transaction processing (OLTP) database with high availability and strong consistency at global scale.
Cloud SQL: Cloud SQL is a web service that allows you to create, configure, and use relational databases that live in Google's cloud. It is a fully-managed service that maintains, manages, and administers your databases, allowing you to focus on your applications and services.
Networking
Cloud CDN: Cloud CDN uses Google's globally distributed edge points of presence to cache HTTP(S) load balanced content close to your users.
Cloud DNS: Cloud DNS is a high performance, resilient, global, fully-managed DNS service that provides a RESTful API to publish and manage DNS records for your applications and services.
Cloud Intrusion Detection System (Cloud IDS): Cloud IDS is a managed service that aids in detecting certain malware, spyware, command-and-control attacks, and other network-based threats.
Cloud Interconnect: Cloud Interconnect offers enterprise-grade connections to Google Cloud Platform:
Dedicated Interconnect: Dedicated Interconnect provides a direct physical connection between Customer's on-premises network and the Google network.
Partner Interconnect: Partner Interconnect allows you to directly connect your on-premises network to your Virtual Private Cloud.
Cross-Cloud Interconnect: Cross-Cloud Interconnect provides a direct physical connection between your network in another cloud and the Google network.
Cross-Site Interconnect (CSI): Cross-Site Interconnect offers software-defined point-to-point transparent layer 2 connectivity within your environment over the Google backbone between a set of two Cloud Interconnect ports.
Cloud Load Balancing: Cloud Load Balancing provides scaling, high availability, and traffic management for your internet-facing and private applications.
Cloud NAT (Network Address Translation): Cloud NAT enables instances in a private network to communicate with the internet.
Cloud Network Insights: Cloud Network Insights provides network performance monitoring for cross-cloud and hybrid networks. Cloud Network Insights enables access to AppNeta, a Third-Party Offering provided by a Broadcom, Inc. affiliate.
Cloud Next Generation Firewall (Cloud NGFW): Cloud NGFW is a fully distributed, cloud-native firewall service that evaluates incoming and outgoing traffic on a network, according to user-defined firewall policies.
Cloud NGFW Enterprise: Cloud NGFW Enterprise is an edition of Cloud NGFW that includes an "Intrusion Prevention System" (IPS) for inline protection against malware, spyware, and command-and-control attacks on your network.
Cloud Router: Cloud Router enables dynamic Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) route updates between your VPC network and your non-Google network.
Cloud VPN: Cloud VPN allows you to connect to your Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) network from your existing network, such as your on-premises network, another VPC network, or another cloud provider's network, through an IPsec connection using (i) Classic VPN, which supports dynamic (BGP) routing or static routing (route-based or policy-based), or (ii) HA (high-availability) VPN, which supports dynamic routing with a simplified redundancy setup, separate failure domains for the gateway interfaces, and a higher service level objective.
*Firebase App Hosting: Firebase App Hosting is a serverless web hosting product for modern, full-stack web apps. It integrates with GitHub and manages the entire stack: from the build, to the CDN, to server-side rendering. Firebase App Hosting has built-in, no-config-needed adapters for popular web frameworks like Next.js and Angular, with support for static site generation, server-side rendering, and client-side rendering.
Google Cloud Armor: Google Cloud Armor offers a policy framework and rules language for customizing access to internet-facing applications and deploying defenses against denial of service attacks as well as targeted application attacks. Components of Google Cloud Armor include: L3/L4 volumetric DDos Protection, preconfigured web-application firewall (WAF) rules, and custom rules language.
Google Cloud Armor Enterprise: Google Cloud Armor Enterprise is a managed application protection service that bundles Google Cloud Armor WAF and DDoS Protection with additional services and capabilities including DDoS response support, DDoS bill protection, and Google Cloud Armor Adaptive Protection, which is Google's machine-learning based solution to protect internet-facing endpoints from network and application-based attacks.
Media CDN: Media CDN is a content delivery network that leverages Google’s global edge cache nodes to deliver exceptional caching efficiency and end user experiences.
Network Connectivity Center: Network Connectivity Center is a hub-and-spoke model for network connectivity management in Google Cloud that facilitates connecting a customer's resources to its cloud network.
NCC Gateway: NCC Gateway is a spoke type that can be attached to the Network Connectivity Center to enable security for cross-cloud network traffic. NCC Gateway allows customers to enable security functions such as third-party security service edge solutions.
Network Intelligence Center: Network Intelligence Center is Google Cloud’s comprehensive network monitoring, verification, and optimization platform across the Google Cloud, multi-cloud, and on-prem environments.
Network Security Integration: Network Security Integration helps you integrate third-party network appliances or service deployments with your Google Cloud Platform workloads. This integration enables seamless ‘bump-in-the-wire’ insertion of third party appliances/services in-band (for inline inspection) or out-of-band (mirrored traffic for offline analysis) without changing your routing policies or network architecture.
Network Service Tiers: Network Service Tiers enable you to select different quality networks (tiers) for outbound traffic to the internet: the Standard Tier primarily utilizes third party transit providers while the Premium Tier leverages Google's private backbone and peering surface for outbound data transfer.
Private Service Connect: Private Service Connect allows consumers to access managed services privately from inside their VPC network. It allows managed service producers to host services in their own separate VPC networks and offer a private connection to their consumers.
Secure Web Proxy (SWP): SWP provides a simple and scalable cloud-first web proxy for cloud workload protection, enabling monitoring, content inspection and granular policy control of web traffic, between Google Cloud hosted workloads and external destinations.
Service Directory: Service Directory is a managed service that offers customers a single place to publish, discover and connect their services in a consistent way, regardless of their environment. Service Directory supports services in Google Cloud, multi-cloud, and on-prem environments and can scale up to thousands of services and endpoints for a single project.
Spectrum Access System: Spectrum Access System enables you to access the Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) in the United States, the 3.5 GHz band that is available for shared commercial use. You can use Spectrum Access System to register your CBRS devices, manage your CBRS deployments, and access a non-production test environment (if offered).
Telecom Network Automation: Telecom Network Automation is Google Cloud's implementation of open source Nephio that delivers simple, carrier grade, cloud-native automation to support the creation of intent driven networks.
Virtual Private Cloud: Virtual Private Cloud provides a private network topology with IP allocation, routing, and network firewall policies to create a secure environment for your deployments.
Operations
Cloud Logging: Cloud Logging is a fully-managed service that performs at scale and can ingest application and system log data, as well as custom log data from thousands of VMs and containers. Cloud Logging allows you to analyze and export selected logs to long-term storage in real time.
Error Reporting: Error Reporting analyzes and aggregates the errors in your cloud applications and notifies you when new errors are detected.
Cloud Monitoring: Cloud Monitoring provides visibility into the performance, uptime, and overall health of cloud-powered applications. Cloud Monitoring collects metrics, events, and metadata from certain Services, hosted uptime probes, application instrumentation, alert management, notifications and a variety of common application components.
Cloud Profiler: Cloud Profiler provides continuous profiling of resource consumption in your production applications, helping you identify and eliminate potential performance issues.
Cloud Trace: Cloud Trace provides latency sampling and reporting for App Engine, including per-URL statistics and latency distributions.
Backup and DR Service: Backup and DR Service is a managed backup and disaster recovery service for centralized protection of workloads in Google Cloud.
Developer Tools
Android Device Streaming: Android Device Streaming, powered by Firebase, lets you securely connect to remote physical Android devices hosted in Google's data centers directly within Android Studio. It enables developers to test apps on a variety of physical devices and API levels to identify issues that might not be apparent in emulators.
Artifact Registry: Artifact Registry is a service for managing container images and packages. It is integrated with Google Cloud tooling and runtimes and comes with support for native artifact protocols. This makes it simple to integrate it with your CI/CD tooling to set up automated pipelines.
Assured Open Source Software (AOSS): AOSS is a service that enables enterprise and public sector users of open source software to easily incorporate into their own developer workflows the same scanned, analyzed and fuzz-tested open source software packages that Google uses.
Cloud Build: Cloud Build is a service that executes your builds on Google Cloud Platform infrastructure. Cloud Build can import source code from Cloud Storage, Cloud Source Repositories, GitHub, or Bitbucket; execute a build to your specifications; and produce artifacts such as Docker containers or Java archives.
Cloud Deploy: Cloud Deploy is a service for managing and performing application continuous delivery to Google Kubernetes Engine. It allows for process specification and control of application delivery.
Cloud Source Repositories: Cloud Source Repositories provides Git version control to support collaborative development of any application or service, including those that run on App Engine and Compute Engine.
Cloud Workstations: Cloud Workstations provides fully-managed and customizable development environments with enhanced security. It enables administrators to easily provision, scale, manage, and secure development environments, while providing developers with fast development environments via browser or local integrated development environment (IDE).
Developer Connect: Developer Connect lets you create and maintain connections to source code management platforms outside of Google Cloud.
*Firebase Test Lab: Firebase Test Lab lets you test your mobile app using your test code or automatically on a wide variety of devices and device configurations hosted in a Google data center, with test results made available in the Firebase console.
Google Device Cloud: Google Device Cloud lets you securely connect to remote physical, Android-based devices hosted in partner device OEMs’ data centers known as Partner Device Labs. It enables developers to test apps and perform device runs on a wide variety of physical devices and API levels to help in identifying issues with their applications.
Secure Source Manager: Secure Source Manager is a fully-managed service that provides a Git-based source code management system.
Data Analytics
BigQuery: BigQuery is a fully-managed data analysis service that enables businesses to analyze Big Data. It features highly scalable data storage that accommodates up to hundreds of terabytes, the ability to perform ad hoc queries on multi-terabyte datasets, and the ability to share data insights via the web.
Cloud Data Fusion: Cloud Data Fusion is a fully-managed, cloud native, enterprise data integration service for quickly building and managing data pipelines. Cloud Data Fusion provides a graphical interface to help increase time efficiency and reduce complexity and allows business users, developers, and data scientists to easily and reliably build scalable data integration solutions to cleanse, prepare, blend, transfer, and transform data without having to wrestle with infrastructure.
Cloud Life Sciences (formerly Google Genomics): Cloud Life Sciences provides services and tools for managing, processing, and transforming life sciences data.
*Data Studio (formerly Looker Studio): Data Studio is a data visualization and business intelligence product. It enables customers to connect to their data stored in other systems, create reports and dashboards using that data, and share them throughout their organization. It is available only where Customer has selected Cloud terms for Data Studio in the Admin Console.
Data Studio Pro (formerly Looker Studio Pro): Data Studio Pro is a paid edition of Data Studio that adds enterprise governance, team management features, and other features listed at https://cloud.google.com/data-studio or a successor URL. Unlike Data Studio, Data Studio Pro is eligible for partner resale.
Dataform: Dataform provides an end-to-end experience for data analysts to develop, test, version control, and schedule complex SQL workflows.
Dataflow: Dataflow is a fully-managed service for strongly consistent, parallel data-processing pipelines. It provides an SDK for Java with composable primitives for building data-processing pipelines for batch or continuous processing. This service manages the life cycle of Compute Engine resources of the processing pipeline(s). It also provides a monitoring user interface for understanding pipeline health.
Dataproc Metastore: Dataproc Metastore provides a fully-managed metastore service that simplifies technical metadata management and is based on a fully-featured Apache Hive metastore. Dataproc Metastore can be used as a metadata storage service component for data lakes built on open source processing frameworks like Apache Hadoop, Apache Spark, Apache Hive, Presto, and others.
Datastream: Datastream is a serverless change data capture (CDC) and replication service that enables data synchronization across heterogeneous databases, storage systems, and applications with minimal latency.
Earth Engine: Earth Engine is a platform for global-scale analysis and visualization of geospatial datasets. Earth Engine can be used with custom datasets, or with any of the publicly available satellite imagery hosted (and ingested on a regular basis) by Earth Engine Data Catalog.
Google Cloud Managed Service for Apache Kafka: Google Cloud Managed Service for Apache Kafka runs reliable, secure Kafka clusters and supporting services.
Knowledge Catalog (formerly Dataplex Universal Catalog): Knowledge Catalog dynamic, always-on catalog for AI that provides the universal context required for agents to execute complex tasks with precision. It unifies structured data across Google platforms like BigQuery, Spanner, and AlloyDB into a single knowledge graph, while using Gemini reasoning to autonomously map relationships hidden in unstructured, multimodal data like PDFs and video. By directly absorbing semantics from LookML and native data platforms, it inherently understands your exact business metrics and provides the deterministic truth for your agents.
Lakehouse (formerly BigLake): Lakehouse is a fully-managed, cross-cloud data platform that provides the flexibility of open standard storage with the performance and scale of BigQuery with unified governance. Lakehouse provides an integrated ecosystem for operational and analytical data, featuring cross-cloud interoperability, high performance Apache Spark performance for data science, and built-in AI capabilities that provide real-time, always-on context for intelligent agents.
Looker (Google Cloud core): Looker (Google Cloud core) is a business intelligence and embedded analytics solution hosted on Google infrastructure. With Looker (Google Cloud core), customers can build semantic models using various data sources, develop customized insights from the models, and share those insights for collaboration via dashboards and other services.
Managed Service for Apache Airflow (formerly Cloud Composer): Managed Service for Apache Airflow is a managed workflow orchestration service that can be used to author, schedule, and monitor pipelines that span across clouds and on-premises data centers. Managed Service for Apache Airflow allows you to use Apache Airflow without the hassle of creating and managing complex Airflow infrastructure.
Managed Service for Apache Spark (formerly Dataproc): Managed Service for Apache Spark is a fast, easy to use, managed Spark and Hadoop service for distributed data processing. It provides management, integration, and development tools for unlocking the power of rich open source data processing tools. With Managed Service for Apache Spark, you can create Spark/Hadoop clusters sized for your workloads precisely when you need them. Managed Service for Apache Spark comes in several flavors, including a serverless configuration for Spark clusters that simplifies usage and administration.
Pub/Sub: Pub/Sub is designed to provide reliable, many-to-many, asynchronous messaging between applications. Publisher applications can send messages to a "topic" and other applications can subscribe to that topic to receive the messages. By decoupling senders and receivers, Pub/Sub allows developers to communicate between independently written applications.
AI/ML Services
AI Solutions
Anti Money Laundering AI (AML AI): AML AI enhances financial institutions' legacy transaction monitoring systems with an AI-powered risk score to improve financial crime risk detection.
Gemini Enterprise for Customer Experience (GECX) (formerly Customer Engagement Suite and Contact Center AI). GECX enables businesses to build and manage agents across the customer lifecycle, from product discovery to post-purchase resolution.
The product suite includes:
CX Agent Studio: Provides a comprehensive, AI-enhanced platform with an easy-to-use visual interface to build, evaluate, deploy, and monitor complex, multimodal conversational agents in over 40 languages.
Conversational Agents: Provides 24/7 self-service via proactive, personalized AI agents, supporting voice, text, and images. Available ﻿in two types:
Flows (formerly Dialogflow CX): Deterministic agents built with intents and flows using Natural Language Understanding (NLU); and
Playbooks: Generative Agents that can be built with natural language instructions and modular building blocks.
Agent Assist: Augments human support representatives with AI, offering real-time coaching and automating call summaries to improve productivity and satisfaction.
CX Insights (formerly Conversational Insights and Quality AI): Helps you analyze conversation data to identify issues, coaching needs, and product improvement opportunities, ensuring quality assurance.
Contact Center as a Service (CCaaS): A secure, omnichannel, cloud-native foundation that integrates the entire suite, ensuring consistent experiences and boosting agent productivity.
*Food Ordering AI Agent: Food Ordering AI Agent is a pre-built conversational AI agent designed to enhance food ordering operations. It utilizes Gemini, Speech-to-Text, Text-to-Speech, and other proprietary Google models to automate the food ordering process (including at a drive-thru window), and additionally connects to BigQuery and Looker to give restaurant operators data-driven insights into their operations.
*Automotive AI Agent: Automotive AI Agent is a hybrid, on-asset and online voice agent framework for customers to build and deploy voice agent experiences for a wide range of automotive-related devices and applications.
Automotive AI Agent API: The Automotive AI Agent API is used for creating, managing, and deploying voice agent experiences. This includes access to certain pre-trained voice agents for automotive contexts.
Automotive AI Agent Premium Software: The Automotive AI Agent solution includes Premium Software components identified below.
Document AI: Document AI is a unified console for document processing that lets you quickly access all document processing models and tools. Customers can use Document AI's Document Workbench to build custom document classification, extraction or splitting models, or utilize pre-trained models for document extraction, including OCR, Form Parser and specialized models.
*Talent Solution: Talent Solution offers access to Google's machine learning, enabling company career sites, job boards, ATS, staffing agencies, and other recruitment technology platforms to improve the talent acquisition experience.
Translation Hub: Translation Hub is a fully-managed document translation solution for organizations seeking to empower their employees to translate documents on demand into many different languages.
Agent Search on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Vertex AI Search): Agent Search on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform allows customers to leverage foundational models and search and recommendation technologies to create multimodal semantic search and question-answering experiences.
Agent Search for Industry on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Vertex AI Search for Industry): Agent Search for Industry on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform enables customers in retail, media, and other verticals to deliver Google-quality search results and recommendations.
*AI Commerce Search on Gemini Enterprise for Customer Experience (formerly Vertex AI Search for Commerce): powered by Google’s Retail API, AI Commerce Search on Gemini Enterprise for Customer Experience allows retailers to leverage Google’s search capabilities on their retail websites and applications.
*Recommendations AI: Recommendations AI enables customers to build a personalized recommendation system using ML models.
Agent Search API on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform: Agent Search API on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform allows customers to leverage Google’s search capabilities on their websites and docs to deliver Google-quality search results.
Pre-Trained APIs
Cloud Natural Language API: Cloud Natural Language API analyzes text to identify entities, sentiment, languages, and syntax.
Cloud Translation API: Cloud Translation API translates text from one language to another language using pre-trained and custom translation models.
Cloud Vision API: Cloud Vision API provides vision detection features such as image classification detection of individual objects and faces, and optical character recognition (OCR).
Speech-to-Text: Speech-to-Text converts audio to text by applying machine learning models.
Text-to-Speech: Text-to-Speech synthesizes human-like speech based on input text in a variety of voices and languages.
Timeseries Insights API: Timeseries Insights API enables large-scale time series forecasting and anomaly detection in real time.
Video Intelligence API: Video Intelligence API analyzes videos to extract metadata, add annotations, and identify entities in a video.
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Vertex AI Platform)
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Vertex AI Platform): Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is a service for managing the AI and machine learning development lifecycle. Customers can (i) build, deploy, scale, optimize, and govern agents; (ii) store and manage datasets, labels, features, and models; (iii) build pipelines to train and evaluate models and run experiments using Google Cloud algorithms or custom training code; (iv) deploy models for online or batch use cases (including via Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform Model Garden); and (v) manage data science workflows using Colab Enterprise and Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform Workbench (also known as Notebooks).
Neural Architecture Search (NAS) on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Vertex AI Neural Architecture Search): Neural Architecture Search on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform leverages Google's neural architecture search technology to generate, evaluate, and train model architectures for a customer's application.
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform Vision (formerly Vertex AI Vision): Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform Vision is a service that allows you to easily build, deploy, and manage computer vision applications with a fully-managed, end-to-end application development environment.
Generative AI Services
Note: In addition to the named Generative AI Services, for the purpose of applicability of the Generative AI Service Specific Terms, Generative AI Services also includes any Generally Available generative AI features of a Service.
Gemini for Google Cloud (formerly known as Duet AI for Google Cloud): Gemini for Google Cloud provides AI-powered end user assistance with a wide range of Google Cloud products. Gemini for Google Cloud is a generative AI-powered collaboration Service that provides assistance to Google Cloud end users. Gemini for Google Cloud is embedded in many Google Cloud products to provide developers, data scientists, and operators an integrated assistance experience. More details about the AI-assistance available through Gemini for Google Cloud can be found at https://cloud.google.com/gemini/docs/overview.
Gemini Code Assist (formerly known as Duet AI for Developers) provides AI-powered assistance to help your development team build, deploy, and operate applications throughout the software development lifecycle.
Gemini in BigQuery provides AI-powered assistance to help you understand, query, and work with your data across the entire data lifecycle.
Generative AI on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Generative AI on Vertex AI): Generative AI on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform lets you build production-ready generative AI agents and applications using Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform and Google’s advanced models and infrastructure, and includes the following:
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform API (formerly Vertex AI API) enables customers to access generative AI foundation models via an API.
Gemini Live API on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Vertex AI Live API) enables low-latency, bidirectional voice and video conversations with Gemini, delivering a natural, human-like user experience.
Grounding with Google Search provides web grounding capability for Gemini models.
Web Grounding for Enterprise provides web grounding capability for Gemini models.
Grounding with Google Maps connects Gemini models with geospatial data from Google Maps.
Embeddings API generates unified text, image, video, and audio vector embeddings to enable high-precision semantic search, classification, and agentic retrieval workflows.
Gemini Notebook Enterprise (formerly NotebookLM Enterprise): Gemini Notebook Enterprise enables customers to use generative AI to summarize and extract information from their data.
Agentic AI Services
Gemini Enterprise: Gemini Enterprise combines AI Agents, Gemini models, and Google search technologies to enable automation and enhance employee productivity by connecting to enterprise data sources and applications, offering workflow automation, search functionality, and generative AI features. As of October 9, 2025, the service formerly known as Agentspace has become a feature of Gemini Enterprise and is no longer available as a standalone Service. A customer with existing orders for Agentspace (under an online or offline order form) will have continued access and use of the service until the expiration of that customer’s order term.
Antigravity in Gemini Enterprise: Antigravity provides a suite of agent-first developer tools that enable users to build, execute, and scale agentic workflows. It provides centralized administration controls to enforce security, privacy, and governance policies within organizations.
Firebase AI Logic: Firebase AI Logic allows you to add generative AI features to applications. It provides a proxy service, client SDKs, and other features which allow customers to access generative AI models to build AI features in mobile and web applications. Customers can choose the API provider and models that they want to use with Firebase AI Logic.
API Management
Apigee and Apigee Edge: Apigee and Apigee Edge are full-lifecycle API management platforms that let customers design, secure, analyze, and scale APIs, giving them visibility and control.
Apigee: Apigee is available as Apigee X, a fully-managed service, and as Apigee Hybrid, a hybrid model that's partially hosted and managed by the customer.
Apigee Edge: Apigee Edge is available as a fully-managed service and as Apigee Edge for Private Cloud, a customer-hosted Premium Software solution.
API Gateway: API Gateway is a fully-managed service that helps you develop, deploy, and secure your APIs running on Google Cloud Platform.
Application Integration: Application Integration is an Integration-Platform-as-a-Service (iPaaS) that offers a comprehensive set of integration tools to connect and manage the multitude of applications and data required to support various business operations. Application Integration provides a unified drag and drop integration designer interface, triggers that help invoke an integration, configurable tasks and numerous connectors that allow connectivity to business applications, technologies, and other data sources using the native protocols of each target application.
Cloud Endpoints: Cloud Endpoints is a tool that helps you to develop, deploy, secure and monitor your APIs running on Google Cloud Platform.
Integration Connectors: Integration Connectors is a platform that allows customers to connect to business applications, technologies and other data sources using native protocols of each target application. The connectivity established through these connectors helps manage access to various data sources which can be used with other services like Application Integration through a consistent, standard interface.
Container Services
Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE): GKE, powered by the open source container scheduler Kubernetes, enables you to run containers on Google Cloud Platform. GKE takes care of provisioning and maintaining the underlying virtual machine cluster, scaling your application, and operational logistics such as logging, monitoring, and cluster health management. Services include:
GKE Config Sync: Config Sync is a solution for enabling consistent configuration across multiple Kubernetes clusters, with your configuration stored as a single source of truth under version control and automatically applied to your clusters.
Policy Controller: Policy Controller is a policy management solution that enables the application and enforcement of programmable policies for your Kubernetes clusters. These policies act as "guardrails" and can help with best practices, security, and compliance management of your clusters and fleet.
GKE Identity Service: GKE Identity Service is an authentication service that lets customers bring existing identity solutions for authentication to multiple environments. Users can log in to and access their clusters from the command line or from the Google Cloud console, all using their existing identity providers.
Cloud Service Mesh: Cloud Service Mesh is a managed service that includes (i) a managed certificate authority that issues cryptographic certificates that identify customer workloads within the Service Mesh for mutual authentication, and (ii) telemetry for customers to manage and monitor their services. Customers receive details showing an inventory of services, can understand their service dependencies, and receive metrics for monitoring their services, and (iii) traffic management for user services in the mesh. For clarity this service does not include Cloud Service Mesh -- Software (see below regarding Premium Software).
GKE Autopilot: GKE Autopilot is a mode of operation in GKE in which Google manages cluster configuration, including nodes, scaling, security, and other preconfigured settings. Autopilot clusters are optimized to run most production workloads, and provision compute resources based on Kubernetes manifests. The streamlined configuration follows GKE best practices and recommendations for cluster and workload setup, scalability, and security.
GKE Connect Agent: GKE Connect Agent is a service that enables both users and Google-hosted components to interact with clusters through a connection to the in-cluster Connect software agent.
GKE Hub: GKE Hub is centralized control-plane that enables a user to register clusters running in a variety of environments, including Google's cloud, on premises in customer datacenters, or other third party clouds. GKE Hub provides a way for customers to centrally manage features and services on customer-registered clusters.
Google-Managed Multi-Cloud Services
*BigQuery Omni: BigQuery Omni is a Google-managed multi-cloud analytics solution that enables analysts to access and analyze data stored on other supported public clouds from a singular BigQuery control-plane on Google Cloud.
Bare Metal
Bare Metal Solution: Bare Metal Solution allows you to operate and manage dedicated bare metal hardware (servers and attached storage) in Google's subprocessors' data centers to run specialized workloads with low latency.
Migration
BigQuery Data Transfer Service: BigQuery Data Transfer Service automates data movement from SaaS applications to BigQuery on a scheduled, managed basis. With the BigQuery Data Transfer Service, you can transfer data to BigQuery from SaaS applications including Google Ads, Campaign Manager, Google Ad Manager, and YouTube.
Database Migration Service: Database Migration Service is a fully-managed migration service that makes it simple to perform high fidelity, minimal-downtime migrations at scale. You can use Database Migration Service to migrate from your on-premises environments, Compute Engine, and other clouds to certain Google Cloud-managed databases with minimal downtime.
Google Distributed Cloud connected Appliance Service (formerly Google Distributed Cloud Edge Appliance service): Google Distributed Cloud connected Appliance Service allows you to run private Google Kubernetes Engine clusters on ruggedized hardware deployed on customer premises. You can use Google Distributed Cloud connected Appliance Service to offload sensor data for storage, low latency processing, and AI/ML inference in bandwidth-limited locations.
Google Cloud Migration Center: Migration Center provides tools, best practices and data-driven prescriptive guidance designed to accelerate the end-to-end cloud migration journey through business case development, environment discovery, workload mapping, migration planning, financial analysis, foundation setup and migration execution.
Migrate to Virtual Machines: Migrate to Virtual Machines is a fully-managed migration service that enables you to migrate workloads at scale into Google Cloud Compute Engine with minimal down time by utilizing replication-based migration technology.
Storage Transfer Service: Storage Transfer Service enables you to import large amounts of online data into Cloud Storage, quickly and cost-effectively. With Storage Transfer Service, you can transfer data from locations reachable by the general internet (e.g., HTTP/HTTPS), including Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), as well as transfer data between Google Cloud products (e.g., between two Cloud Storage buckets). You can also use Storage Transfer Service to move data between private data center storage (e.g., NFS) and Google Cloud products (e.g., transfer from NFS to Cloud Storage).
Transfer Appliance: Transfer Appliance is a solution that uses hardware appliances and software to transfer large amounts of data quickly and cost-effectively into Google Cloud Platform.
Security and Identity
Security
Access Transparency: Access Transparency captures near real-time logs of manual, targeted accesses by Google administrators, and serves them to customers via their Cloud Logging account.
Assured Workloads: Assured Workloads provides functionality to create security controls that are enforced on your cloud environment. These security controls can assist with your compliance requirements (for example, FedRAMP Moderate).
Audit Manager: Audit Manager provides customers with a shared responsibility matrix for selective compliance standards which Audit Manager supports through Google Cloud Platform. It enables customers to perform compliance assessments against their workloads and generate evidence to support compliance audits.
Binary Authorization: Binary Authorization helps customers ensure that only signed and explicitly-authorized workload artifacts are deployed to their production environments. It offers tools for customers to formalize and codify secure supply chain policies for their organizations.
Certificate Authority Service: Certificate Authority Service is a cloud-hosted certificate issuance service that lets customers issue and manage certificates for their cloud or on-premises workloads. Certificate Authority Service can be used to create certificate authorities using Cloud KMS keys to issue, revoke, and renew subordinate and end-entity certificates.
Certificate Manager: Certificate Manager provides a central place for customers to control where certificates are used and how to obtain certificates, and to see the state of the certificates.
Cloud Asset Inventory: Cloud Asset Inventory is an inventory of cloud assets with history. It enables users to export cloud resource metadata at a given timestamp or cloud resource metadata history within a time window.
Cloud External Key Manager (Cloud EKM): Cloud EKM lets you encrypt data in Google Cloud Platform with encryption keys that are stored and managed in a third-party key management system deployed outside Google's infrastructure.
Cloud HSM (Hardware Security Module): Cloud HSM is a cloud-hosted key management service that lets you protect encryption keys and perform cryptographic operations within a managed HSM service. You can generate, use, rotate, and destroy various symmetric and asymmetric keys.
Cloud Key Management Service (Cloud KMS): Cloud KMS is a cloud-hosted key management service that lets you manage cryptographic keys for your cloud services the same way you do on premises. You can generate, use, rotate, and destroy AES256, RSA 2048, RSA 3072, RSA 4096, EC P256, and EC P384 cryptographic keys.
Cyber Insurance Hub: Cyber Insurance Hub allows customers to scan their cloud environments and generate reports around their compliance with industry-standard security best practices, including CIS benchmarks. Customers then have the ability to share these reports with insurance providers and brokers.
Key Access Justifications (KAJ): KAJ provides a justification for every request sent through Cloud KMS or Cloud EKM for an encryption key that permits data to change state from at-rest to in-use.
Model Armor: Model Armor is a fully-managed service that provides runtime protection to generative AI applications from various security and safety risks by screening LLM prompts and responses. It provides protection against multiple threats including prompt rejection and jailbreak, malicious URL, sensitive data leakage, and offensive content.
Security Command Center: Security Command Center is Google Cloud's centralized vulnerability and threat reporting service. Security Command Center provides asset inventory and discovery and allows you to identify misconfigurations, vulnerabilities and threats, helping you to mitigate and remediate risks.
Sensitive Data Protection (including Cloud Data Loss Prevention or DLP): Sensitive Data Protection is a fully-managed service enabling customers to discover, classify, de-identify, and protect sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information.
VPC Service Controls: VPC Service Controls provide administrators the ability to configure security perimeters around resources of API based cloud services (such as Cloud Storage, BigQuery, Bigtable) and limit access to authorized VPC networks, thereby mitigating data exfiltration risks.
Secret Manager: Secret Manager provides a secure and convenient method for storing API keys, passwords, certificates, and other sensitive data.
Web Security Scanner: Web Security Scanner is a web application security scanner that enables developers to easily check for a subset of common web application vulnerabilities in websites built on App Engine and Compute Engine.
Identity & Access
Access Approval: Access Approval allows customers to approve eligible manual, targeted accesses by Google administrators to their data or workloads before those accesses happen.
Access Context Manager: Access Context Manager allows Google Cloud organization administrators to define fine-grained, attribute based access control for projects, apps and resources.
Chrome Enterprise Premium (formerly known as BeyondCorp Enterprise): Chrome Enterprise Premium is a solution designed to enable zero-trust application access to enterprise users and protect enterprises from data leakage, malware and phishing attacks. Chrome Enterprise Premium is an integrated platform incorporating cloud-based services and software components. For a list of included features, please see here: https://chromeenterprise.google/products/chrome-enterprise-premium/
Cloud Identity Services: Cloud Identity Services are the services and editions as described at: https://cloud.google.com/terms/identity/user-features.html or such other URL as Google may provide.
Firebase App Check: Firebase App Check provides a service that can help protect access to your APIs with platform specific attestation that helps verify app identity and device integrity.
*Firebase Authentication: Firebase Authentication provides a service as part of the Firebase platform to authenticate and manage users in your applications. It supports authentication using email & password, phone number and popular federated identity providers like Google and Facebook.
Firebase Phone Number Verification (Firebase PNV): Firebase PNV is a fast and secure method for verifying user phone numbers. Unlike other verification methods that require users to receive and input a code from a text message, Firebase PNV works with the device hardware and the mobile carrier to allow for verification in a single tap.
Identity-Aware Proxy (IAP): IAP is a tool that helps control access, based on a user's identity and group membership, to applications running on Google Cloud Platform.
Identity and Access Management (IAM): IAM provides administrators the ability to manage cloud resources centrally by controlling who can take what action on specific resources.
Identity Platform: Identity Platform provides you with functionality and tools to manage your users' identities and access to your applications. Identity Platform supports authentication and management of users with a variety of methods, including email & password, phone number, and popular federated identity providers like Google and Facebook.
Managed Service for Microsoft Active Directory (AD): Managed Service for Microsoft Active Directory is a Google Cloud service running Microsoft AD that enables you to deploy, configure and manage cloud-based AD-dependent workloads and applications. It is a fully-managed service that is highly available, applies network firewall rules, and keeps AD servers updated with Operating System patches.
Organization Policy Service: Organization Policy Service provides customizable security guardrails to centrally enforce resource configuration compliance across resource hierarchies.
Resource Manager: Resource Manager allows you to programmatically manage Google Cloud Platform container resources (such as Organizations and Projects), that allow you to group and hierarchically organize other Google Cloud Platform resources. This hierarchical organization lets you easily manage common aspects of your resources such as access control and configuration settings.
Google Distributed Cloud
Google Distributed Cloud connected (formerly Google Distributed Cloud Edge): Google Distributed Cloud connected allows you to run private Google Kubernetes Engine clusters on dedicated hardware on your premises. This solution also provides you with a VPN connection to Google Cloud Platform, allowing you to interact with other Google Cloud Services or other applications running in your Virtual Private Cloud.
Data Boundary by Partners
Data Boundary by Partners (formerly Sovereign Controls by Partners): Data Boundary by Partners are solutions comprising a suite of Services offered by Google that are complemented by a set of services, offered by, and under separate terms of service with, third party partners ("Data Boundary Partners"), which together create additional security controls for certain Services, while also allowing the relevant Data Boundary Partner to provide additional security measures for those Services, as further described at: https://cloud.google.com/terms/in-scope-sovereign-cloud.
User Protection Services
Google Cloud Fraud Defense (formerly reCAPTCHA Enterprise): Google Cloud Fraud Defense helps detect fraudulent activity on websites.
Web Risk API: Web Risk API is a Google Cloud service that lets client applications check URLs against Google's constantly updated lists of unsafe web resources.
Serverless Computing
Cloud Run Services: Cloud Run Services lets you run http request-driven workloads in a fully serverless manner.
Cloud Run Jobs: Cloud Run Jobs let you run serverless containers that run a specific task to completion and then exit.
Cloud Run functions (formerly Cloud Functions): Cloud Run functions is a lightweight, event-based, asynchronous compute solution that allows you to create small, single-purpose functions that respond to cloud events without the need to manage a server or a runtime environment.
*Cloud Functions for Firebase: Cloud Functions for Firebase lets you write code that responds to events and invokes functionality exposed by other Firebase features, once you deploy JavaScript code in a hosted, private, and scalable Node.js environment that requires no maintenance.
Cloud Scheduler: Cloud Scheduler is a fully-managed enterprise-grade cron job scheduler. It allows you to schedule virtually any job, including batch, big data jobs, cloud infrastructure operations, and more. You can automate everything, including retries in case of failure to reduce manual toil and intervention. Cloud Scheduler even acts as a single pane of glass, allowing you to manage all your automation tasks from one place.
Cloud Tasks: Cloud Tasks is a fully-managed service that allows you to manage the execution, dispatch, and delivery of a large number of distributed tasks. Using Cloud Tasks, you can perform work asynchronously outside of a user or service-to-service request. Cloud Tasks provides all the benefits of a distributed task queue such as task offloading wherein heavyweight, background and long running processes can be dispatched to a task queue, loose coupling between microservices allowing them to scale independently, and enhanced system reliability as tasks are persisted in storage and retried automatically, making your infrastructure resilient to intermittent failures.
Eventarc: Eventarc is a fully-managed service for eventing on Google Cloud Platform. Eventarc connects various Google Cloud services together, allowing source services (e.g., Cloud Storage) to emit events that are delivered to target services (e.g., Cloud Run or Cloud Run functions).
Workflows: Workflows is a fully-managed service for reliably executing sequences of operations across microservices, Google Cloud services, and HTTP-based APIs.
Management Tools
Cloud Shell: Cloud Shell is a tool that provides command-line access to cloud resources directly from your browser. You can use Cloud Shell to run experiments, execute Cloud SDK commands, manage projects and resources, and do lightweight software development via the built-in web editor.
Cloud Location Finder: Cloud Location Finder is an API that helps you find and filter cloud locations, such as regions and zones, across Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services, and Oracle Cloud Infrastructure based on proximity, geographic location, and carbon footprint.
Infrastructure Manager. Infrastructure Manager is a fully-managed service that enables administrators and developers to deploy and oversee infrastructure configuration. By utilizing a declarative approach, users can specify the required application resources, which the tool then provisions and maintains.
Recommender: Recommender automatically analyzes your usage patterns to provide recommendations and insights across services to help you use Google Cloud Platform in a more secure, cost-effective, and efficient manner.
Service Infrastructure: Service Infrastructure is a foundational platform for creating, managing, securing, and consuming APIs and services. It includes:
Service Management API, which lets service producers manage their APIs and services;
Service Consumer Management API, which lets service producers manage their relationships with their service consumers; and
Service Control API, which lets managed services integrate with Service Infrastructure for admission control and telemetry reporting functionality.
Service Usage API, which lets service consumers manage their usage of APIs and services.
Healthcare and Life Sciences
Cloud Healthcare API: Cloud Healthcare API is a fully-managed service to send, receive, store, query, transform, and analyze healthcare and life sciences data and enable advanced insights and operational workflows using highly scalable and compliance-focused infrastructure.
*Healthcare Data Engine (HDE): HDE is a solution that enables (i) harmonization of healthcare data to the Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources ("FHIR") standard and (ii) streaming of healthcare data to an analytic environment.
Media and Gaming
Live Stream API: Live Stream API is a cloud-based live encoder that processes high-quality contribution feeds for 24x7 live linear or live events and prepares the streams for digital distribution. It compresses the video and audio elementary streams with the latest video codecs and packages the streams in standardized container formats to reach all IP connected devices.
Transcoder API: Transcoder API can batch convert media files into optimized formats to enable streaming across web, mobile, and living room devices. It provides fast, easy to use, large-scale processing of advanced codecs while utilizing Google's storage, networking, and delivery infrastructure.
Video Stitcher API: Video Stitcher API enables users to dynamically insert content or ads using server-side video insertion technology. Video and ads are conditioned into a single stream for video on demand (VOD) or live streams to deliver flexible and target personalization at scale.
Google Cloud Platform Premium Software
Below is a list of available software components subject to the Google Cloud Platform Service Specific Terms as Premium Software.
AlloyDB Omni is a downloadable version of AlloyDB that customers can run in their own datacenters, in any cloud, and on developer laptops. It is a PostgreSQL-compatible database with many of the performance and kernel enhancements implemented. Free usage of AlloyDB Omni is considered Google Cloud Platform Software and is not Google Cloud Platform Premium Software.
*Apigee hybrid runtime: Apigee hybrid runtime enables you to run the Apigee runtime plane in containers on Kubernetes within your data center.
*Apigee Edge for Private Cloud: Apigee Edge for Private Cloud enables you to host and run Apigee entirely within your data center.
*Automotive AI Agent Premium Software: Automotive AI Agent includes the following Premium Software components to enable the deployment and serving of speech and natural language models (including pre-trained voice agents) on-asset:
AAA SDK
Speech-to-Text On-Device Models
Text-to-Speech On-Device Models
AAA Natural Language Models
Cloud Vision OCR On-Prem: Cloud Vision OCR On-Prem enables you to run Cloud Vision OCR models within your data center and across multiple cloud environments.
Google Distributed Cloud (GDC) Software-Only (formerly Google Kubernetes Engine Enterprise): GDC Software-Only includes the following Premium Software components:
GDC Software-Only core software: GDC Software-Only core software enables you to run containers on Kubernetes and can be deployed on premises in your own data center (Google Distributed Cloud Virtual), as well as in both private and public clouds.
Cloud Service Mesh - Software: Cloud Service Mesh - Software is a suite of tools to run a reliable service mesh on GDC Software-Only, to help you monitor, manage and secure traffic between the services deployed on GDC Software-Only.
Identity Service - Software: Identity Service - Software may be downloaded and installed in supported cluster types and environments to let administrators set up authentication with their preferred Identity providers for one or more GDC Software-Only clusters.
Connect Software: Connect Software may be downloaded and installed in clusters to enable connectivity between the customer-registered cluster and Google Cloud.
Cloud Logging and Cloud Monitoring for GDC Software-Only: Cloud Logging and Cloud Monitoring can be deployed in a range of hybrid cloud environments to enable centralized log storage, log analysis, metrics capture, metrics trending, customized alerting, and application debug tracing.
Spanner Omni is a downloadable version of Cloud Spanner that users can run in their own data centers, in any cloud, and on developer laptops. It is a distributed database that provides high scalability, high availability, strong consistency, enterprise-grade security and fully interoperable multi-model capabilities for AI-enabled applications. Free usage of Spanner Omni is considered Google Cloud Platform Software and is not Google Cloud Platform Premium Software.
Speech-to-Text On-Prem: Speech-to-Text On-Prem enables you to run Cloud Speech-to-Text models within your data center and across multiple cloud environments.
Telecom Subscriber Insights: Telecom Subscriber Insights is designed to help Communication Service Providers (CSPs) securely extract insights using their own existing data sources. Telecom Subscriber Insights leverages AI models that ingest and analyze data to provide CSPs with recommended subscriber engagement actions.
Google Cloud Platform Software
Below is a non-exclusive list of available software components subject to the Google Cloud Platform Service Specific Terms as Software.
ABAP SDK for Google Cloud enables native, bi-directional integration between SAP applications and Google Cloud.
BigQuery Connector for SAP replicates, in connection with SAP Landscape Transformation Replication Server, SAP NetWeaver-based application data changes in near real-time and directly into BigQuery.
CCAI Connector: CCAI Connector enables enterprise contact centers with on-premise legacy telephony platforms to connect with Dialogflow ES, Flows, Agent Assist, and Conversational Insights.
Config Connector is a Kubernetes add-on that allows you to manage your Google Cloud resources through Kubernetes configuration files.
Deep Learning VM and Container: Deep Learning VM and Container provides virtual machine and Docker images with AI frameworks that can be customized and used with Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, Cloud Run, Compute Engine, Kubernetes, and Docker Swarm.
Google Cloud app: A mobile companion for Google Cloud services that provides on-the-go access to insights, notifications, and management capabilities.
Google Cloud SDK: Google Cloud SDK is a set of tools to manage resources and applications hosted on Google Cloud Platform. It includes the Google Cloud Command Line Interface (CLI), Cloud Client Libraries for programmatic access to Google Cloud Platform services, the gsutil, kubectl, and bq command line tools, and various service and data emulators for local platform development. The Google Cloud SDK provides the primary programmatic interfaces to Google Cloud Platform.
Kf enables you to migrate and run applications from the open-source Cloud Foundry platform into containers in Google Kubernetes Engine.
Migrate to Containers enables you to migrate and run applications from virtual machines on-premise or other clouds into containers in Google Kubernetes Engine and Cloud Run, while producing container and data artifacts for integration with modern CI/CD and Google Cloud services. Migrated container images and artifacts are portable for use across a variety of Google Kubernetes Engine and Cloud Run hybrid configurations as listed in the applicable software documentation. With Migrate to Containers, the need for application rewrite is minimized.
Migrate for Compute Engine v4.X enables you to validate, run, and migrate applications from on-premise or other clouds into Compute Engine while minimizing downtime and application rewrite.
SecOps Services Summary
Expand all
SecOps Services Summary
The SecOps Services are listed at https://cloud.google.com/terms/secops/services?hl=en, which is incorporated into this Services Summary. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding sentence, SecOps Services are not GCP Services. If you are a partner or reseller authorized to resell or supply Google Cloud Platform but not SecOps Services under a Google Cloud partner or reseller program, then the Services included in the SecOps Service Summary are not "Services" or "Products" for the purposes of your Agreement.
Previous versions (Last modified September 30, 2026)
August 27, 2026July 16, 2026June 25, 2026June 8, 2026June 5, 2026May 29, 2026May 25, 2026May 12, 2026May 4, 2026April 22, 2026March 17, 2026February 18, 2026January 29, 2026December 9, 2025October 16, 2025October 9, 2025October 6, 2025September 2, 2025August 28, 2025August 18, 2025July 21, 2025July 1, 2025June 19, 2025June 10, 2025May 20, 2025April 16, 2025April 8, 2025January 30, 2025October 24, 2024October 22, 2024October 7, 2024September 30, 2024September 24, 2024September 5, 2024August 28, 2024August 21, 2024June 27, 2024May 6, 2024April 9, 2024March 27, 2024March 18, 2024March 12, 2024March 7, 2024February 26, 2024February 15, 2024February 12, 2024January 15, 2024December 20, 2023December 12, 2023November 15, 2023November 1, 2023October 26, 2023October 12, 2023October 11, 2023September 25, 2023August 28, 2023August 24, 2023August 14, 2023July 27, 2023July 12, 2023June 29, 2023June 22, 2023June 13, 2023June 7, 2023June 5, 2023June 1, 2023May 16, 2023May 10, 2023May 8, 2023May 2, 2023April 27, 2023April 11, 2023March 30, 2023February 16, 2023December 13, 2022November 3, 2022October 11, 2022October 3, 2022September 29, 2022August 31, 2022August 22, 2022August 16, 2022August 1, 2022July 13, 2022June 28, 2022June 16, 2022May 19, 2022April 25, 2022April 12, 2022April 4, 2022March 31, 2022February 28, 2022February 2, 2022January 19, 2022December 13, 2021November 30, 2021October 18, 2021September 30, 2021September 13, 2021August 24, 2021July 20, 2021June 22, 2021May 18, 2021April 30, 2021April 14, 2021April 8, 2021March 31, 2021March 2, 2021February 4, 2021January 26, 2021January 6, 2021November 2, 2020September 15, 2020September 1, 2020August 19, 2020August 7, 2020July 27, 2020July 24, 2020July 13, 2020June 30, 2020June 9, 2020April 27, 2020April 22, 2020April 15, 2020April 9, 2020March 31, 2020March 26, 2020March 16, 2020March 11, 2020February 25, 2020February 3, 2020December 12, 2019December 3, 2019November 14, 2019November 4, 2019October 7, 2019October 1, 2019August 21, 2019June 25, 2019June 17, 2019May 31, 2019May 16, 2019April 10, 2019April 9, 2019March 11, 2019February 1, 2019January 2, 2019December 13, 2018December 3, 2018October 7, 2018September 18, 2018August 29, 2018August 16, 2018August 2, 2018July 31, 2018July 24, 2018July 10, 2018June 28, 2018May 18, 2018May 9, 2018May 8, 2018April 13, 2018March 27, 2018March 23, 2018March 21, 2018February 6, 2018January 17, 2018November 16, 2017November 13, 2017November 9, 2017October 3, 2017September 25, 2017September 13, 2017
menu
OverviewSolutionsProductsPricingResourcesDocsSupportContact us

DocsSupport
Console
Sign in
Start free
Start free
Contact us
close
Accelerate your digital transformation
Whether your business is early in its journey or well on its way to digital transformation, Google Cloud can help solve your toughest challenges.
Learn more
Key benefits
Why Google Cloud
Top reasons businesses choose us.
AI and Agents
Get enterprise-ready AI.
Multicloud
Run your apps wherever you need them.
Global infrastructure
Build on the same infrastructure as Google.
Data Cloud
Make smarter decisions with unified data.
Modern Infrastructure Cloud
Next generation of cloud infrastructure.
Security
Protect your users, data, and apps.
Productivity and collaboration
Connect your teams with AI-powered apps.
Reports and insights
Executive insights
Curated C-suite perspectives.
Analyst reports
Read what industry analysts say about us.
Whitepapers
Browse and download popular whitepapers.
Customer stories
Explore case studies and videos.
close
Industry Solutions
Application Modernization
Artificial Intelligence
APIs and Applications
Data Analytics
Databases
Infrastructure Modernization
Productivity and Collaboration
Security
Startups and SMB
See all solutions
Industry Solutions
Reduce cost, increase operational agility, and capture new market opportunities.
Retail
Analytics and collaboration tools for the retail value chain.
Consumer Packaged Goods
Solutions for CPG digital transformation and brand growth.
Financial Services
Computing, data management, and analytics tools for financial services.
Healthcare and Life Sciences
Advance research at scale and empower healthcare innovation.
Media and Entertainment
Solutions for content production and distribution operations.
Telecommunications
Hybrid and multi-cloud services to deploy and monetize 5G.
Games
AI-driven solutions to build and scale games faster.
Manufacturing
Migration and AI tools to optimize the manufacturing value chain.
Supply Chain and Logistics
Enable sustainable, efficient, and resilient data-driven operations across supply chain and logistics operations.
Government
Data storage, AI, and analytics solutions for government agencies.
Education
Teaching tools to provide more engaging learning experiences.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all industry solutions
Application Modernization
Modernize, automate, and scale your application and data portfolio using enterprise AI, intelligent engineering practices, and cloud-native infrastructure.
Google Cloud Modernize
Unified program and AI-powered tools for end-to-end cloud migration and modernization.
Application Modernization with AI
AI-assisted code refactoring, assessment, and transformation for legacy applications.
Gemini for business
Enterprise-ready generative AI and agents to accelerate innovation across your organization.
AI Hypercomputer
Integrated supercomputing architecture to train, tune, and serve AI workloads.
Mainframe Modernization
Automated tools and AI-driven guidance for moving your mainframe apps to the cloud.
Database Modernization
Fully managed database services to migrate, manage, and modernize enterprise data.
Data Lake Modernization
Unify and govern multimodal data on an open, high-performance cloud data lake.
Data Warehouse Modernization
Migrate and modernize your enterprise data warehouse for serverless analytics and AI.
APIs
Unlock legacy applications and build new digital channels using APIs and automation.
Platform Eng
Managed services and golden paths to build, manage, and scale internal developer platforms.
DevOps Best Practices
Processes and resources for implementing DevOps in your org.
SRE Principles
Tools and resources for adopting SRE in your org.
Artificial Intelligence
Add intelligence and efficiency to your business with AI and machine learning.
Gemini for customer experience
Build and manage agents that live across the entire customer lifecycle.
Gemini for enterprise
Unified agentic portfolio for your entire organization.
AI Commerce Search
Google-quality search and product recommendations for retailers.
Google Cloud with Gemini
AI assistants for application development, coding, and more.
Physical AI
Simulate, train, and operate the next generation of robots, autonomous vehicles, industrial devices, and machines.
APIs and Applications
Speed up the pace of innovation without coding, using APIs, apps, and automation.
New Business Channels Using APIs
Attract and empower an ecosystem of developers and partners.
Unlocking Legacy Applications Using APIs
Cloud services for extending and modernizing legacy apps.
Open Banking APIx
Simplify and accelerate secure delivery of open banking compliant APIs.
Data Analytics
Generate instant insights from data at any scale with a serverless, fully managed analytics platform that significantly simplifies analytics.
Data Migration
Migrate and modernize your data warehouse and data lakes with AI-powered migration services.
Data Lakehouse
Unify and govern your multimodal data with a high-performance and open data lakehouse.
Real-time Analytics
Insights from ingesting, processing, and analyzing event streams.
Marketing Analytics
Solutions for collecting, analyzing, and activating customer data.
Datasets
Data from Google, public, and commercial providers to enrich your analytics and AI initiatives.
Business Intelligence
Solutions for modernizing your BI stack and creating rich data experiences.
Data Analytics Agents
Built-in agents for data lifecycle and tools to build your own agents.
Geospatial Analytics
A comprehensive platform to solve for geospatial use cases at scale.
Data Science
Managed services and integrated workflows to build, manage, and scale data science.
Databases
Migrate and manage enterprise data with security, reliability, high availability, and fully managed data services.
Database Migration
Guides and tools to simplify your database migration life cycle.
Database Modernization
Upgrades to modernize your operational database infrastructure.
Databases for Games
Build global, live games with Google Cloud databases.
Google Cloud Databases
Database services to migrate, manage, and modernize data.
Migrate Oracle workloads to Google Cloud
Rehost, replatform, rewrite your Oracle workloads.
Open Source Databases
Fully managed open source databases with enterprise-grade support.
SQL Server on Google Cloud
Options for running SQL Server virtual machines on Google Cloud.
Gemini for Databases
Supercharge database development and management with AI.
Infrastructure Modernization
Migrate core systems rapidly and modernize enterprise workloads with AI-powered infrastructure and automated cloud solutions.
Google Cloud Modernize
Unified program and AI-powered tools for end-to-end cloud migration and modernization.
Gemini for business
Enterprise-ready generative AI and agents to accelerate innovation across your organization.
AI Hypercomputer
Integrated supercomputing architecture to train, tune, and serve AI workloads.
Rapid Migration and Modernization Program (RaMP)
End-to-end migration program to simplify and accelerate your path to the cloud.
Data Center Exits
Migration solutions for moving VMs, apps, databases, and workloads out of data centers.
Application Modernization & Migration
Discovery, assessment, and migration tools for moving and modernizing applications.
Database Modernization & Migration
Fully managed database services to migrate, manage, and modernize enterprise data.
Cross-Cloud Networking
Simplify hybrid and multicloud networking, and secure your workloads, data, and users.
High Performance Computing (HPC)
Compute, storage, and networking options to support any high-performance workload.
VMware
Fully managed, native VMware Cloud Foundation software stack on Google Cloud.
SAP
Certified infrastructure and AI solutions for running SAP applications and SAP HANA.
Windows
Tools, licenses, and partner solutions for running enterprise Windows workloads.
Productivity and Collaboration
Change the way teams work with solutions designed for humans and built for impact.
Google Workspace
Collaboration and productivity tools for enterprises.
Google Workspace Essentials
Secure video meetings and modern collaboration for teams.
Cloud Identity
Unified platform for IT admins to manage user devices and apps.
Chrome Enterprise
ChromeOS, Chrome Browser, and Chrome devices built for business.
Security
Detect, investigate, and respond to online threats to help protect your business.
Agentic SOC
Delivering better security outcomes with AI agents.
Web App and API Protection
Threat and fraud protection for your web applications and APIs.
Security and Resilience Framework
Solutions for each phase of the security and resilience life cycle.
Risk and compliance as code (RCaC)
Solution to modernize your governance, risk, and compliance function with automation.
Software Supply Chain Security
Solution for improving end-to-end software supply chain security.
Security Foundation
Recommended products to help achieve a strong security posture.
Google Cloud Cybershield™
Strengthen nationwide cyber defense.
Startups and SMB
Accelerate startup and SMB growth with tailored solutions and programs.
Startup Program
Get financial, business, and technical support to take your startup to the next level.
Small and Medium Business
Explore solutions for web hosting, app development, AI, and analytics.
Software as a Service
Build better SaaS products, scale efficiently, and grow your business.
close
Featured Products
AI and Machine Learning
Business Intelligence
Compute
Containers
Data Analytics
Databases
Developer Tools
Distributed Cloud
Hybrid and Multicloud
Industry Specific
Integration Services
Management Tools
Maps and Geospatial
Media Services
Migration
Networking
Operations
Productivity and Collaboration
Security and Identity
Serverless
Storage
Web3
See all products (100+)
Featured Products
Gemini for business
Secure platform to discover, create, run, and govern AI agents for employees.
Gemini platform
Unified platform for ML models, generative AI, and agent building.
Compute Engine
Virtual machines running in Google’s data center.
Cloud Storage
Object storage that’s secure, durable, and scalable.
BigQuery
Autonomous data to AI platform for analytics and data science.
Cloud Run
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Google Kubernetes Engine
Managed environment for running containerized apps.
Looker
Platform for BI, data applications, and embedded analytics.
Apigee API Management
Manage the full life cycle of APIs anywhere with visibility and control.
Cloud SQL
Relational database services for MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQL Server.
Cloud CDN
Content delivery network for delivering web and video.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all products (100+)
AI and Machine Learning
Gemini platform
Unified platform for ML models, generative AI, and agent building.
Gemini for business
Secure platform to discover, create, run, and govern AI agents for employees.
Gemini for customer experience
Build and manage agents that live across the entire customer lifecycle.
Model Garden
Single place to discover over 200 models from Google and Google partners.
Customer Experience Agent Studio
Build conversational AI with both deterministic and gen AI functionality.
Agent Search
Build Google-quality search for your enterprise apps and experiences.
Speech-to-Text
Speech recognition and transcription across 125 languages.
Text-to-Speech
Speech synthesis in 220+ voices and 40+ languages.
Translation AI
Language detection, translation, and glossary support.
Vision AI
Custom and pre-trained models to detect emotion, text, and more.
Contact Center as a Service
Omnichannel contact center solution that is native to the cloud.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all AI and machine learning products
Business Intelligence
Looker
Platform for BI, data applications, and embedded analytics.
Data Studio
Interactive data suite for dashboarding, reporting, and analytics.
Compute
Compute Engine
Virtual machines running in Google’s data center.
App Engine
Serverless application platform for apps and back ends.
Cloud GPUs
GPUs for ML, scientific computing, and 3D visualization.
Migrate to Virtual Machines
Server and virtual machine migration to Compute Engine.
Spot VMs
Compute instances for batch jobs and fault-tolerant workloads.
Batch
Fully managed service for scheduling batch jobs.
Sole-Tenant Nodes
Dedicated hardware for compliance, licensing, and management.
Bare Metal
Infrastructure to run specialized workloads on Google Cloud.
Recommender
Usage recommendations for Google Cloud products and services.
VMware Engine
Fully managed, native VMware Cloud Foundation software stack.
Cloud Run
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all compute products
Containers
Google Kubernetes Engine
Managed environment for running containerized apps.
Cloud Run
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Cloud Build
Solution for running build steps in a Docker container.
Artifact Registry
Package manager for build artifacts and dependencies.
Cloud Code
IDE support to write, run, and debug Kubernetes applications.
Cloud Deploy
Fully managed continuous delivery to GKE and Cloud Run.
Migrate to Containers
Components for migrating VMs into system containers on GKE.
Deep Learning Containers
Containers with data science frameworks, libraries, and tools.
Knative
Components to create Kubernetes-native cloud-based software.
Data Analytics
BigQuery
Autonomous data to AI platform for analytics and data science.
Managed Service for Apache Spark
Zero-ops serverless or managed clusters, accelerated by Lightning Engine.
Dataflow
Real-time analytics for stream and batch processing.
Looker
Platform for BI, data applications, and embedded analytics.
Lakehouse
Open lakehouse platform with enterprise storage and performance capabilities.
Pub/Sub
Messaging service for event ingestion and delivery.
Managed Service for Apache Airflow
Workflow orchestration service built on Apache Airflow.
Knowledge Catalog
Always-on catalog for AI that provides universal context for agents.
Data Analytics Agents
Built-in agents for data lifecycle and tools to build your own agents.
Data Analytics Migration Services
Free-to-use, cloud-native and AI-powered data migration services.
Managed Service for Apache Kafka
Managed Kafka service to operate highly available Apache Kafka clusters.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all data analytics products
Databases
AlloyDB for PostgreSQL
Fully managed, PostgreSQL-compatible database for enterprise workloads.
Cloud SQL
Fully managed database for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server.
Firestore
Highly scalable and serverless NoSQL document database, with MongoDB compatibility.
Spanner
Cloud-native relational database with unlimited scale and 99.999% availability.
Bigtable
Cloud-native wide-column database for large-scale, low-latency workloads.
Datastream
Serverless change data capture and replication service.
Database Migration Service
Serverless, minimal downtime migrations to Cloud SQL.
Bare Metal Solution
Fully managed infrastructure for your Oracle workloads.
Memorystore
Fully managed Redis and Memcached for sub-millisecond data access.
Developer Tools
Artifact Registry
Universal package manager for build artifacts and dependencies.
Cloud Code
IDE support to write, run, and debug Kubernetes applications.
Cloud Build
Continuous integration and continuous delivery platform.
Cloud Deploy
Fully managed continuous delivery to GKE and Cloud Run.
Cloud Deployment Manager
Service for creating and managing Google Cloud resources.
Cloud SDK
Command-line tools and libraries for Google Cloud.
Cloud Scheduler
Cron job scheduler for task automation and management.
Cloud Source Repositories
Private Git repository to store, manage, and track code.
Infrastructure Manager
Automate infrastructure management with Terraform.
Cloud Workstations
Managed and secure development environments in the cloud.
Gemini Code Assist
AI-powered assistant available across Google Cloud and your IDE.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all developer tools
Distributed Cloud
Google Distributed Cloud Connected
Distributed cloud services for edge workloads.
Google Distributed Cloud Air-gapped
Distributed cloud for air-gapped workloads.
Hybrid and Multicloud
Google Kubernetes Engine
Managed environment for running containerized apps.
Apigee API Management
API management, development, and security platform.
Migrate to Containers
Tool to move workloads and existing applications to GKE.
Cloud Build
Service for executing builds on Google Cloud infrastructure.
Observability
Monitoring, logging, and application performance suite.
Cloud Service Mesh
Fully managed service mesh based on Envoy and Istio.
Google Distributed Cloud
Fully managed solutions for the edge and data centers.
Industry Specific
Anti Money Laundering AI
Detect suspicious, potential money laundering activity with AI.
Cloud Healthcare API
Solution for bridging existing care systems and apps on Google Cloud.
Device Connect for Fitbit
Gain a 360-degree patient view with connected Fitbit data on Google Cloud.
Telecom Network Automation
Ready to use cloud-native automation for telecom networks.
Telecom Data Fabric
Telecom data management and analytics with an automated approach.
Telecom Subscriber Insights
Ingests data to improve subscriber acquisition and retention.
Spectrum Access System (SAS)
Controls fundamental access to the Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS).
Integration Services
Application Integration
Connect to 3rd party apps and enable data consistency without code.
Workflows
Workflow orchestration for serverless products and API services.
Apigee API Management
Manage the full life cycle of APIs anywhere with visibility and control.
Cloud Tasks
Task management service for asynchronous task execution.
Cloud Scheduler
Cron job scheduler for task automation and management.
Managed Service for Apache Spark
Zero-ops serverless or managed clusters, accelerated by Lightning Engine.
Cloud Data Fusion
Data integration for building and managing data pipelines.
Managed Service for Apache Airflow
Workflow orchestration service built on Apache Airflow.
Pub/Sub
Messaging service for event ingestion and delivery.
Eventarc
Build an event-driven architecture that can connect any service.
Management Tools
Cloud Shell
Interactive shell environment with a built-in command line.
Cloud console
Web-based interface for managing and monitoring cloud apps.
Cloud Endpoints
Deployment and development management for APIs on Google Cloud.
Cloud IAM
Permissions management system for Google Cloud resources.
Cloud APIs
Programmatic interfaces for Google Cloud services.
Service Catalog
Service catalog for admins managing internal enterprise solutions.
Cost Management
Tools for monitoring, controlling, and optimizing your costs.
Observability
Monitoring, logging, and application performance suite.
Carbon Footprint
Dashboard to view and export Google Cloud carbon emissions reports.
Config Connector
Kubernetes add-on for managing Google Cloud resources.
Active Assist
Tools for easily managing performance, security, and cost.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all management tools
Maps and Geospatial
Earth Engine
Geospatial platform for Earth observation data and analysis.
Google Maps Platform
Create immersive location experiences and improve business operations.
Media Services
Cloud CDN
Content delivery network for serving web and video content.
Live Stream API
Service to convert live video and package for streaming.
OpenCue
Open source render manager for visual effects and animation.
Transcoder API
Convert video files and package them for optimized delivery.
Video Stitcher API
Service for dynamic or server side ad insertion.
Migration
Migration Center
Unified platform for migrating and modernizing with Google Cloud.
Application Migration
App migration to the cloud for low-cost refresh cycles.
Migrate to Virtual Machines
Components for migrating VMs and physical servers to Compute Engine.
Cloud Foundation Toolkit
Reference templates for Deployment Manager and Terraform.
Database Migration Service
Serverless, minimal downtime migrations to Cloud SQL.
Migrate to Containers
Components for migrating VMs into system containers on GKE.
Data Analytics Migration Services
Streamlined data warehouse and data lake migration tooling and incentives.
Rapid Migration and Modernization Program
End-to-end migration program to simplify your path to the cloud.
Transfer Appliance
Storage server for moving large volumes of data to Google Cloud.
Storage Transfer Service
Data transfers from online and on-premises sources to Cloud Storage.
VMware Engine
Migrate and run your VMware workloads natively on Google Cloud.
Networking
Cloud Armor
Security policies and defense against web and DDoS attacks.
Cloud CDN and Media CDN
Content delivery network for serving web and video content.
Cloud DNS
Domain name system for reliable and low-latency name lookups.
Cloud Load Balancing
Service for distributing traffic across applications and regions.
Cloud NAT
NAT service for giving private instances internet access.
Cloud Connectivity
Connectivity options for VPN, peering, and enterprise needs.
Network Connectivity Center
Connectivity management to help simplify and scale networks.
Network Intelligence Center
Network monitoring, verification, and optimization platform.
Network Service Tiers
Cloud network options based on performance, availability, and cost.
Virtual Private Cloud
Single VPC for an entire organization, isolated within projects.
Private Service Connect
Secure connection between your VPC and services.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all networking products
Operations
Cloud Logging
Google Cloud audit, platform, and application logs management.
Cloud Monitoring
Infrastructure and application health with rich metrics.
Error Reporting
Application error identification and analysis.
Managed Service for Prometheus
Fully-managed Prometheus on Google Cloud.
Cloud Trace
Tracing system collecting latency data from applications.
Cloud Profiler
CPU and heap profiler for analyzing application performance.
Cloud Quotas
Manage quotas for all Google Cloud services.
Productivity and Collaboration
AppSheet
No-code development platform to build and extend applications.
AppSheet Automation
Build automations and applications on a unified platform.
Gemini for business
Secure platform to discover, create, run, and govern AI agents for employees.
Google Workspace
Collaboration and productivity tools for individuals and organizations.
Google Workspace Essentials
Secure video meetings and modern collaboration for teams.
Cloud Identity
Unified platform for IT admins to manage user devices and apps.
Chrome Enterprise
ChromeOS, Chrome browser, and Chrome devices built for business.
Security and Identity
Cloud IAM
Permissions management system for Google Cloud resources.
Sensitive Data Protection
Discover, classify, and protect your valuable data assets.
Mandiant Managed Defense
Find and eliminate threats with confidence 24x7.
Google Threat Intelligence
Know who’s targeting you.
Security Command Center
Platform for defending against threats to your Google Cloud assets.
Cloud Key Management
Manage encryption keys on Google Cloud.
Mandiant Incident Response
Minimize the impact of a breach.
Chrome Enterprise Premium
Get secure enterprise browsing with extensive endpoint visibility.
Assured Workloads
Compliance and security controls for sensitive workloads.
Google Security Operations
Detect, investigate, and respond to cyber threats.
Mandiant Consulting
Get expert guidance before, during, and after an incident.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all security and identity products
Serverless
Cloud Run
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Cloud Functions
Platform for creating functions that respond to cloud events.
App Engine
Serverless application platform for apps and back ends.
Workflows
Workflow orchestration for serverless products and API services.
API Gateway
Develop, deploy, secure, and manage APIs with a fully managed gateway.
Storage
Cloud Storage
Object storage that’s secure, durable, and scalable.
Block Storage
High-performance storage for AI, analytics, databases, and enterprise applications.
Filestore
File storage that is highly scalable and secure.
Persistent Disk
Block storage for virtual machine instances running on Google Cloud.
Cloud Storage for Firebase
Object storage for storing and serving user-generated content.
Local SSD
Block storage that is locally attached for high-performance needs.
Storage Transfer Service
Data transfers from online and on-premises sources to Cloud Storage.
Google Cloud Managed Lustre
High performance managed parallel file service.
Google Cloud NetApp Volumes
File storage service for NFS, SMB, and multi-protocol environments.
Backup and DR Service
Service for centralized, application-consistent data protection.
Web3
Blockchain Node Engine
Fully managed node hosting for developing on the blockchain.
Blockchain RPC
Enterprise-grade RPC for building on the blockchain.
close
Save money with our transparent approach to pricing
Google Cloud's pay-as-you-go pricing offers automatic savings based on monthly usage and discounted rates for prepaid resources. Contact us today to get a quote.
Request a quote
Pricing overview and tools
Google Cloud pricing
Pay only for what you use with no lock-in.
Pricing calculator
Calculate your cloud savings.
Google Cloud free tier
Explore products with free monthly usage.
Cost optimization framework
Get best practices to optimize workload costs.
Cost management tools
Tools to monitor and control your costs.
Product-specific Pricing
Compute Engine
Cloud SQL
Google Kubernetes Engine
Cloud Storage
BigQuery
See full price list with 100+ products
close
Learn & build
Google Cloud Free Program
$300 in free credits and 20+ free products.
Solution Generator
Get AI generated solution recommendations.
Quickstarts
Get tutorials and walkthroughs.
Blog
Read our latest product news and stories.
Learning Hub
Grow your career with role-based training.
Google Cloud certification
Prepare and register for certifications.
Cloud computing basics
Learn more about cloud computing basics.
Cloud Architecture Center
Get reference architectures and best practices.
Connect
Innovators
Join Google Cloud's developer program.
Developer Center
Stay in the know and stay connected.
Events and webinars
Browse upcoming and on demand events.
Google Cloud Community
Ask questions, find answers, and connect.
Consulting and Partners
Google Cloud Consulting
Work with our experts on cloud projects.
Google Cloud Marketplace
Deploy ready-to-go solutions in a few clicks.
Find a partner
Explore the benefits of working with a partner.
Google Cloud partners
Learn about the ecosystem and resources.
close
Overview
arrow_forward
Solutions
arrow_forward
Products
arrow_forward
Pricing
arrow_forward
Resources
arrow_forward
Docs
Support
Console
Accelerate your digital transformation
Learn more
Key benefits
Why Google Cloud
AI and Agents
Multicloud
Global infrastructure
Data Cloud
Modern Infrastructure Cloud
Security
Productivity and collaboration
Reports and insights
Executive insights
Analyst reports
Whitepapers
Customer stories
Industry Solutions
Retail
Consumer Packaged Goods
Financial Services
Healthcare and Life Sciences
Media and Entertainment
Telecommunications
Games
Manufacturing
Supply Chain and Logistics
Government
Education
See all industry solutions
See all solutions
Application Modernization
Google Cloud Modernize
Application Modernization with AI
Gemini for business
AI Hypercomputer
Mainframe Modernization
Database Modernization
Data Lake Modernization
Data Warehouse Modernization
APIs
Platform Eng
DevOps Best Practices
SRE Principles
Artificial Intelligence
Gemini for customer experience
Gemini for enterprise
AI Commerce Search
Google Cloud with Gemini
Physical AI
APIs and Applications
New Business Channels Using APIs
Unlocking Legacy Applications Using APIs
Open Banking APIx
Data Analytics
Data Migration
Data Lakehouse
Real-time Analytics
Marketing Analytics
Datasets
Business Intelligence
Data Analytics Agents
Geospatial Analytics
Data Science
Databases
Database Migration
Database Modernization
Databases for Games
Google Cloud Databases
Migrate Oracle workloads to Google Cloud
Open Source Databases
SQL Server on Google Cloud
Gemini for Databases
Infrastructure Modernization
Google Cloud Modernize
Gemini for business
AI Hypercomputer
Rapid Migration and Modernization Program (RaMP)
Data Center Exits
Application Modernization & Migration
Database Modernization & Migration
Cross-Cloud Networking
High Performance Computing (HPC)
VMware
SAP
Windows
Productivity and Collaboration
Google Workspace
Google Workspace Essentials
Cloud Identity
Chrome Enterprise
Security
Agentic SOC
Web App and API Protection
Security and Resilience Framework
Risk and compliance as code (RCaC)
Software Supply Chain Security
Security Foundation
Google Cloud Cybershield™
Startups and SMB
Startup Program
Small and Medium Business
Software as a Service
Featured Products
Gemini for business
Gemini platform
Compute Engine
Cloud Storage
BigQuery
Cloud Run
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Apigee API Management
Cloud SQL
Cloud CDN
See all products (100+)
AI and Machine Learning
Gemini platform
Gemini for business
Gemini for customer experience
Model Garden
Customer Experience Agent Studio
Agent Search
Speech-to-Text
Text-to-Speech
Translation AI
Vision AI
Contact Center as a Service
See all AI and machine learning products
Business Intelligence
Looker
Data Studio
Compute
Compute Engine
App Engine
Cloud GPUs
Migrate to Virtual Machines
Spot VMs
Batch
Sole-Tenant Nodes
Bare Metal
Recommender
VMware Engine
Cloud Run
See all compute products
Containers
Google Kubernetes Engine
Cloud Run
Cloud Build
Artifact Registry
Cloud Code
Cloud Deploy
Migrate to Containers
Deep Learning Containers
Knative
Data Analytics
BigQuery
Managed Service for Apache Spark
Dataflow
Looker
Lakehouse
Pub/Sub
Managed Service for Apache Airflow
Knowledge Catalog
Data Analytics Agents
Data Analytics Migration Services
Managed Service for Apache Kafka
See all data analytics products
Databases
AlloyDB for PostgreSQL
Cloud SQL
Firestore
Spanner
Bigtable
Datastream
Database Migration Service
Bare Metal Solution
Memorystore
Developer Tools
Artifact Registry
Cloud Code
Cloud Build
Cloud Deploy
Cloud Deployment Manager
Cloud SDK
Cloud Scheduler
Cloud Source Repositories
Infrastructure Manager
Cloud Workstations
Gemini Code Assist
See all developer tools
Distributed Cloud
Google Distributed Cloud Connected
Google Distributed Cloud Air-gapped
Hybrid and Multicloud
Google Kubernetes Engine
Apigee API Management
Migrate to Containers
Cloud Build
Observability
Cloud Service Mesh
Google Distributed Cloud
Industry Specific
Anti Money Laundering AI
Cloud Healthcare API
Device Connect for Fitbit
Telecom Network Automation
Telecom Data Fabric
Telecom Subscriber Insights
Spectrum Access System (SAS)
Integration Services
Application Integration
Workflows
Apigee API Management
Cloud Tasks
Cloud Scheduler
Managed Service for Apache Spark
Cloud Data Fusion
Managed Service for Apache Airflow
Pub/Sub
Eventarc
Management Tools
Cloud Shell
Cloud console
Cloud Endpoints
Cloud IAM
Cloud APIs
Service Catalog
Cost Management
Observability
Carbon Footprint
Config Connector
Active Assist
See all management tools
Maps and Geospatial
Earth Engine
Google Maps Platform
Media Services
Cloud CDN
Live Stream API
OpenCue
Transcoder API
Video Stitcher API
Migration
Migration Center
Application Migration
Migrate to Virtual Machines
Cloud Foundation Toolkit
Database Migration Service
Migrate to Containers
Data Analytics Migration Services
Rapid Migration and Modernization Program
Transfer Appliance
Storage Transfer Service
VMware Engine
Networking
Cloud Armor
Cloud CDN and Media CDN
Cloud DNS
Cloud Load Balancing
Cloud NAT
Cloud Connectivity
Network Connectivity Center
Network Intelligence Center
Network Service Tiers
Virtual Private Cloud
Private Service Connect
See all networking products
Operations
Cloud Logging
Cloud Monitoring
Error Reporting
Managed Service for Prometheus
Cloud Trace
Cloud Profiler
Cloud Quotas
Productivity and Collaboration
AppSheet
AppSheet Automation
Gemini for business
Google Workspace
Google Workspace Essentials
Cloud Identity
Chrome Enterprise
Security and Identity
Cloud IAM
Sensitive Data Protection
Mandiant Managed Defense
Google Threat Intelligence
Security Command Center
Cloud Key Management
Mandiant Incident Response
Chrome Enterprise Premium
Assured Workloads
Google Security Operations
Mandiant Consulting
See all security and identity products
Serverless
Cloud Run
Cloud Functions
App Engine
Workflows
API Gateway
Storage
Cloud Storage
Block Storage
Filestore
Persistent Disk
Cloud Storage for Firebase
Local SSD
Storage Transfer Service
Google Cloud Managed Lustre
Google Cloud NetApp Volumes
Backup and DR Service
Web3
Blockchain Node Engine
Blockchain RPC
Save money with our transparent approach to pricing
Request a quote
Pricing overview and tools
Google Cloud pricing
Pricing calculator
Google Cloud free tier
Cost optimization framework
Cost management tools
Product-specific Pricing
Compute Engine
Cloud SQL
Google Kubernetes Engine
Cloud Storage
BigQuery
See full price list with 100+ products
Learn & build
Google Cloud Free Program
Solution Generator
Quickstarts
Blog
Learning Hub
Google Cloud certification
Cloud computing basics
Cloud Architecture Center
Connect
Innovators
Developer Center
Events and webinars
Google Cloud Community
Consulting and Partners
Google Cloud Consulting
Google Cloud Marketplace
Find a partner
Google Cloud partners
Why Google
Choosing Google Cloud
Trust and security
Modern Infrastructure Cloud
Multicloud
Global infrastructure
Locations
Customers and case studies
Analyst reports
Whitepapers
Blog
Products and pricing
Google Cloud pricing
Google Workspace pricing
See all products
Solutions
Infrastructure modernization
Databases
Application modernization
Smart analytics
Artificial Intelligence
Security
Productivity & work transformation
Industry solutions
DevOps solutions
Small business solutions
See all solutions
Resources
Google Cloud Affiliate Program
Google Cloud documentation
Google Cloud quickstarts
Google Cloud Marketplace
Learn about cloud computing
Support
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training
Certifications
Google for Developers
Google Cloud for Startups
System status
Release Notes
Engage
Contact sales
Find a Partner
Become a Partner
Events
Podcasts
Developer Center
Press Corner
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Follow on X
Join User Research
We're hiring. Join Google Cloud!
Community forums
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Cookies management controls
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe
language‪English‬
‪English‬
‪Deutsch‬
‪Español‬
‪Español (Latinoamérica)‬
‪Français‬
‪Indonesia‬
‪Italiano‬
‪Português (Brasil)‬
‪简体中文‬
‪繁體中文‬
‪日本語‬
‪한국어‬
