# status 200  final_url https://docs.cloud.google.com/sensitive-data-protection/docs/access-control/access-control-iam  content-type text/html; charset=utf-8
Skip to main content
Documentation
close
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
/
Console
English
Deutsch
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
Sign in
Sensitive Data Protection
Start free
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Documentation
More
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Console
Discover
Product overview
Plan your data risk management strategy
Evaluate your data risk management needs
Learn about your data through discovery and inspection
Recommended strategies for mitigating data risk
Release notes
Pricing
Locations
Global and regional endpoints for Sensitive Data Protection
Sensitive Data Protection locations
Specify a processing location
Service method types
Supported file types and scanning modes
Get started
Quickstarts
Inspect text using the command-line tool
Inspect text using a JSON request
Schedule an inspection scan
Create an inspection template
De-identify and re-identify sensitive text
Google Cloud Skills Boost labs
Detect sensitive data
Discover and profile data resources
Overview of sensitive data discovery
Common discovery enablement scenarios
Allow discovery within service perimeters
Profile your data
Profile a single data resource
Profile BigQuery data
Estimate BigQuery data profiling cost
Estimate the cost of profiling BigQuery data in a project
Estimate the cost of profiling BigQuery data in an organization or folder
Profile BigQuery data in a project
Profile BigQuery data in an organization or folder
Profile Cloud SQL data
Profile Cloud SQL data in a project
Profile Cloud SQL data in an organization or folder
Manage connections
Profile Cloud Storage data
Profile Cloud Storage data in a project
Profile Cloud Storage data in an organization or folder
Profile Vertex AI data
Sensitive data discovery for Vertex AI data
Profile Vertex AI data in a project
Profile Vertex AI data in an organization or folder
Profile Amazon S3 data
Sensitive data discovery for Amazon S3 data
Profile Amazon S3 data
Profile Azure Blob Storage data
Report secrets in environment variables to Security Command Center
Grant data profiling access to a service agent
Manage data profiles
Control IAM access to resources based on data sensitivity
Send discovery insights to other services
Enable discovery actions
Send data profiles to Security Command Center
Receive and parse Pub/Sub messages about data profiles
Tag tables in Data Catalog based on insights from data profiles
Add Knowledge Catalog aspects based on insights from data profiles
Analyze and visualize data profiles
Visualize data profiles in the discovery dashboard
Analyze data profiles
Remediate findings from the data profiler
Manage scan configurations
Troubleshoot issues with the data profiler
Metrics reference
Data risk and sensitivity levels
Inspect for sensitive data
Inspect data stored in Google Cloud
Inspect data from any source
Inspect unstructured text synchronously
Inspect structured text synchronously
Inspect an image synchronously
Asynchronous inspection overview
Inspect data from any source asynchronously
Quote the sensitive data in the results
Work with inspection results
Actions
Send inspection results to Knowledge Catalog as aspects
Send inspection results to Data Catalog
Send inspection results to Security Command Center
Analyze and report on inspection findings
Query inspection findings in BigQuery
Parse findings stored as Protobuf text
Jobs and job triggers
Overview of jobs and job triggers
Create and manage jobs and job triggers
Web-based inspection demonstration app
Allow or block content based on sensitivity
Overview of content policies
Create and manage content policies
Configure detection
Templates
Overview of templates
Create inspection templates
InfoTypes and infoType detectors
Overview of infoTypes and infoType detectors
Built-in infoType detectors
List built-in infoType detectors
InfoType detector reference
Custom infoType detectors
Overview of custom infoType detectors
Create a regular custom dictionary detector
Create a large custom dictionary detector
Create a custom regex detector
Create a custom metadata label detector
Custom infoType examples
Manage infoTypes through the Google Cloud console
Modify infoType detectors to refine scan results
Match likelihood
Likelihood overview
Customize match likelihood
Mask and de-identify data
Overview
Transformation methods
Transformation reference
Text classification and redaction
Date shifting
Generalization and bucketing
Pseudonymization
De-identify sensitive data
De-identify data stored in Google Cloud
Overview
Through the Cloud console
Through the DLP API
Transformation details reference
De-identify data from any source
De-identify text or tabular content
Examples of text redaction
Examples of tabular data de-identification
Image inspection and redaction
Redact sensitive data from images
Create a de-identification template
Create a wrapped key
De-identify BigQuery data at query time
De-identification and re-identification of PII in large-scale datasets
Redact sensitive data from PDF files
Analyze re-identification risk
Overview of re-identification risk analysis
Re-identification risk analysis techniques
Compute k-anonymity for a dataset
Compute l-diversity for a dataset
Compute k-map for a dataset
Compute δ-presence for a dataset
Compute numerical and categorical statistics
Visualize re-identification risk using Data Studio
Connect to other services
Use Sensitive Data Protection with BigQuery
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Cloud Storage
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Cloud Storage
Automate the classification of data uploaded to Cloud Storage
Send inspection results to Data Catalog
Send inspection results to Security Command Center
Monitor your usage with Cloud Monitoring
Use Sensitive Data Protection with AWS S3
Use Sensitive Data Protection with JDBC Databases
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Apigee
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Data Fusion
Build a secure anomaly detection solution using Dataflow, BigQuery ML, and Sensitive Data Protection
Troubleshoot
Troubleshoot issues with the data profiler
Control access
Authentication
IAM
Access control with IAM
Sensitive Data Protection roles and permissions
Sensitive Data Protection service agents
Control access with VPC Service Controls
Monitor
Audit logging
Monitor your usage with Cloud Monitoring
Develop
All Sensitive Data Protection code samples
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Cloud Data Loss Prevention (Cloud DLP) is now a part of Sensitive Data Protection. The API name remains the same: Cloud Data Loss Prevention API (DLP API). For information about the services that make up Sensitive Data Protection, see Sensitive Data Protection overview.
Home
Documentation
Security
Sensitive Data Protection
Guides
Send feedback
Access control with IAM
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
This page describes how you can control access to Sensitive Data Protection resources.
Sensitive Data Protection uses Identity and Access Management (IAM) to
control access to resources. IAM is a tool to manage fine-grained authorization
for your Google Cloud resources. In other words, IAM lets you control who can do
what on which resources.
To give users access to a resource with IAM, you grant them specific roles.
IAM roles give the principals permissions to perform tasks on your
Sensitive Data Protection resources.
For detailed information about IAM and its features, see the
IAM documentation.
Manage access to Sensitive Data Protection resources
The most common way to manage access with IAM is to use allow policies. Allow policies
list which principals have access to the resource and what actions they can perform on the
resource.
The following sections describe how to manage access with allow policies using the
Google Cloud console and the Google Cloud CLI. This includes procedures for common tasks, such as how
to grant and revoke a single role. You can also grant and revoke multiple roles at the same
time. For more information, see Manage
access to projects, folders, and organizations in the IAM documentation.
You can also use allow policies that are attached to different Google Cloud resources to
manage access at other levels of the resource hierarchy. To learn more, see Using resource hierarchy for access
control in the IAM documentation.
Not all resources support allow policies. To learn which resources you can attach allow policies
to, see Resources that support
allow policies in the IAM documentation.
To learn about other policies you can use to control access with IAM, such as
deny policies, see IAM
policy types in the IAM documentation.
Grant a single IAM role on a project, folder, or organization
This section describes how to grant access at the project, folder, or
organization level. This controls a user's access to the project, folder, or
organization, and all resources within it.
To grant a single role to a principal on a project, folder, or organization,
do the following:
Console
In the Google Cloud console, go to the IAM page.
Go
to IAM
Select a project, folder, or organization.
Select a principal to grant a role to:
To grant a principal an additional role on the
resource, find a row containing the principal, click
edit Edit principal in that
row, and click add Add another
role.
To grant a role to a service agent,
select the Include Google-provided role grants checkbox
to see its email address.
Note: You cannot edit inherited roles when managing access to a
resource. To edit inherited roles, go to the resource where the
role was granted.
To grant a role to a principal who doesn't have any existing roles on the
resource, click person_add Grant
Access, then enter a
principal identifier—for
example,
my-user@example.com
or
//iam.googleapis.com/locations/global/workforcePools/example-pool/group/example-group@example.com.
Select a role to grant from the drop-down list. For best security
practices, choose a role that includes only the permissions that your
principal needs.
Optional: Add a condition to the role.
Click Save. The principal is granted the role on the resource.
gcloud
Note: To grant the Owner role (roles/owner) on a project to
a user outside of your organization, you must use the Google Cloud console,
not the gcloud CLI. If your project is not part of an organization,
you must use the Google Cloud console to grant the Owner role.
In the Google Cloud console, activate Cloud Shell.
Activate Cloud Shell
At the bottom of the Google Cloud console, a
Cloud Shell
session starts and displays a command-line prompt. Cloud Shell is a shell environment
with the Google Cloud CLI
already installed and with values already set for
your current project. It can take a few seconds for the session to initialize.
The
add-iam-policy-binding
command lets you quickly grant a role to a principal.
Before using any of the command data below,
make the following replacements:
RESOURCE_TYPE: The resource type that you want to
manage access to. Use projects, resource-manager folders, or
organizations.
RESOURCE_ID: Your Google Cloud project, folder,
or organization ID. Project IDs are alphanumeric, like my-project.
Folder and organization IDs are numeric, like 123456789012.
PRINCIPAL: An identifier for the principal, or member,
which usually has the following form:
PRINCIPAL_TYPE:ID.
For example, user:my-user@example.com or
principalSet://iam.googleapis.com/locations/global/workforcePools/example-pool/group/example-group@example.com.
For a full list of the values that PRINCIPAL can have, see Principal identifiers.
For the principal type user, the domain name in the identifier must be
a Google Workspace domain or a Cloud Identity domain. To learn how to set
up a Cloud Identity domain, see the
overview of Cloud Identity.
ROLE_NAME: The name of the role that you want
to grant. Use one of the following formats:
Predefined roles: roles/SERVICE.IDENTIFIER
Project-level custom roles: projects/PROJECT_ID/roles/IDENTIFIER
Organization-level custom roles: organizations/ORG_ID/roles/IDENTIFIER
For a list of predefined roles, see Understanding roles.
CONDITION: The condition to add to the role
binding. If you don't want to add a condition, use the value None. For
more information about conditions, see the conditions overview.
Execute the
following
command:
Linux, macOS, or Cloud Shell
gcloud RESOURCE_TYPE add-iam-policy-binding RESOURCE_ID \
--member=PRINCIPAL --role=ROLE_NAME \
--condition=CONDITION
Windows (PowerShell)
gcloud RESOURCE_TYPE add-iam-policy-binding RESOURCE_ID `
--member=PRINCIPAL --role=ROLE_NAME `
--condition=CONDITION
Windows (cmd.exe)
gcloud RESOURCE_TYPE add-iam-policy-binding RESOURCE_ID ^
--member=PRINCIPAL --role=ROLE_NAME ^
--condition=CONDITION
The response contains the updated IAM allow policy.
Note: If you grant access to a user's email alias or a secondary domain, then the values in
your allow policy might not match the values that you initially entered. If you grant
access to an email alias, then the allow policy displays the user's primary email address.
If you grant access to a secondary domain, then the allow policy displays the primary
domain.
Revoke a single IAM role on a project, folder, or organization
This section describes how to revoke access at the project, folder, or
organization level. This controls a user's access to the project, folder, or
organization, and all resources within it.
To revoke a single role from a principal on a project, folder, or
organization, do the following:
Console
In the Google Cloud console, go to the IAM page.
Go to IAM
Select a project, folder, or organization.
Find the row containing the principal whose access you want to revoke. Then,
click edit Edit principal in that
row.
Note: You cannot edit inherited roles when managing access to a
resource. To edit inherited roles, go to the resource where the
role was granted.
Click the Delete delete button
for the role that you want to revoke, and then click Save.
gcloud
In the Google Cloud console, activate Cloud Shell.
Activate Cloud Shell
At the bottom of the Google Cloud console, a
Cloud Shell
session starts and displays a command-line prompt. Cloud Shell is a shell environment
with the Google Cloud CLI
already installed and with values already set for
your current project. It can take a few seconds for the session to initialize.
To revoke a role from a user, run the remove-iam-policy-binding
command:
gcloud RESOURCE_TYPE remove-iam-policy-binding RESOURCE_ID \
--member=PRINCIPAL --role=ROLE_NAME
Provide the following values:
RESOURCE_TYPE: The resource type that you want to
manage access to. Use projects, resource-manager folders, or
organizations.
RESOURCE_ID: Your Google Cloud project, folder,
or organization ID. Project IDs are alphanumeric, like my-project.
Folder and organization IDs are numeric, like 123456789012.
PRINCIPAL: An identifier for the principal, or
member, which usually has the following form:
PRINCIPAL_TYPE:ID.
For example, user:my-user@example.com or
principalSet://iam.googleapis.com/locations/global/workforcePools/example-pool/group/example-group@example.com.
For the principal type user, the domain name in the identifier must be
a Google Workspace domain or a Cloud Identity domain. To learn how to set
up a Cloud Identity domain, see the
overview of Cloud Identity.
ROLE_NAME: The name of the role that you want
to revoke. Use one of the following formats:
Predefined roles: roles/SERVICE.IDENTIFIER
Project-level custom roles: projects/PROJECT_ID/roles/IDENTIFIER
Organization-level custom roles: organizations/ORG_ID/roles/IDENTIFIER
For a list of predefined roles, see Understanding roles.
For example, to revoke the Project Creator role from the service account
example-service-account@example-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com for the project example-project:
gcloud projects remove-iam-policy-binding example-project \
--member=serviceAccount:example-service-account@example-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
--role=roles/resourcemanager.projectCreator
To help avoid revoking any necessary roles, you can
enable change risk
recommendations. Change risk recommendations generate warnings when you try
to revoke project-level roles that Google Cloud has identified as
important.
Conditional access
IAM Conditions let you make your policies more granular by granting
access to principals only when certain specified conditions are met. Conditions are based on
attributes relating to the principal, resource, and request. For example, you can grant a
principal access only if they're accessing the resource from a specific location or at a
specific time.
Conditions in allow policies are based on the following types of attributes:
Resource attributes: Includes the service, type, or name
of the resource. These attributes are typically used to change the scope
of an access granted by a role binding.
Request attributes: Includes details of the request, like
the time or access level of the principal who made the request. These
attributes let you create conditions that evaluate details about the
request, such as its access level, date and time, the destination IP
address and port, or the expected URL path.
For more information about the condition attributes supported by Sensitive Data Protection, see the
Attribute reference for IAM
Conditions in the IAM documentation.
You can't grant conditional access directly on Sensitive Data Protection resources. However, you can
grant conditional access to Sensitive Data Protection resource types by granting roles to principals
on a container resource, such as a project, folder, or organization, and adding conditions
to these role bindings. Conditions added to the allow policy of a container resource are
inherited by the resources included in that container resource. For more
information about inherited conditions, see Support for inherited
conditions in the IAM documentation.
To learn how to add conditions to role bindings, see Managing conditional role bindings
in the IAM documentation.
What's next
To learn more about access control with IAM, see the
IAM overview.
To view the available roles and permissions for Sensitive Data Protection, see Sensitive Data Protection roles and permissions.
Learn more about how the sensitive data discovery service uses service
agent containers and service agents to profile your data resources.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2026-10-07 UTC.
Products and pricing
See all products
Google Cloud pricing
Google Cloud Marketplace
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Android
Chrome
Firebase
Google AI
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Manage cookies
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe
English
Deutsch
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
