# status 200  final_url https://docs.cloud.google.com/sensitive-data-protection/docs/sending-results-to-dc  content-type text/html; charset=utf-8
Skip to main content
Documentation
close
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
/
Console
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
Sign in
Sensitive Data Protection
Start free
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Documentation
More
Overview
Guides
Reference
Samples
Resources
Console
Discover
Product overview
Plan your data risk management strategy
Evaluate your data risk management needs
Learn about your data through discovery and inspection
Recommended strategies for mitigating data risk
Release notes
Pricing
Locations
Global and regional endpoints for Sensitive Data Protection
Sensitive Data Protection locations
Specify a processing location
Service method types
Supported file types and scanning modes
Get started
Quickstarts
Inspect text using the command-line tool
Inspect text using a JSON request
Schedule an inspection scan
Create an inspection template
De-identify and re-identify sensitive text
Google Cloud Skills Boost labs
Detect sensitive data
Discover and profile data resources
Overview of sensitive data discovery
Common discovery enablement scenarios
Allow discovery within service perimeters
Profile your data
Profile a single data resource
Profile BigQuery data
Estimate BigQuery data profiling cost
Estimate the cost of profiling BigQuery data in a project
Estimate the cost of profiling BigQuery data in an organization or folder
Profile BigQuery data in a project
Profile BigQuery data in an organization or folder
Profile Cloud SQL data
Profile Cloud SQL data in a project
Profile Cloud SQL data in an organization or folder
Manage connections
Profile Cloud Storage data
Profile Cloud Storage data in a project
Profile Cloud Storage data in an organization or folder
Profile Vertex AI data
Sensitive data discovery for Vertex AI data
Profile Vertex AI data in a project
Profile Vertex AI data in an organization or folder
Profile Amazon S3 data
Sensitive data discovery for Amazon S3 data
Profile Amazon S3 data
Profile Azure Blob Storage data
Report secrets in environment variables to Security Command Center
Grant data profiling access to a service agent
Manage data profiles
Control IAM access to resources based on data sensitivity
Send discovery insights to other services
Enable discovery actions
Send data profiles to Security Command Center
Receive and parse Pub/Sub messages about data profiles
Tag tables in Data Catalog based on insights from data profiles
Add Knowledge Catalog aspects based on insights from data profiles
Analyze and visualize data profiles
Visualize data profiles in the discovery dashboard
Analyze data profiles
Remediate findings from the data profiler
Manage scan configurations
Troubleshoot issues with the data profiler
Metrics reference
Data risk and sensitivity levels
Inspect for sensitive data
Inspect data stored in Google Cloud
Inspect data from any source
Inspect unstructured text synchronously
Inspect structured text synchronously
Inspect an image synchronously
Asynchronous inspection overview
Inspect data from any source asynchronously
Quote the sensitive data in the results
Work with inspection results
Actions
Send inspection results to Knowledge Catalog as aspects
Send inspection results to Data Catalog
Send inspection results to Security Command Center
Analyze and report on inspection findings
Query inspection findings in BigQuery
Parse findings stored as Protobuf text
Jobs and job triggers
Overview of jobs and job triggers
Create and manage jobs and job triggers
Web-based inspection demonstration app
Allow or block content based on sensitivity
Overview of content policies
Create and manage content policies
Configure detection
Templates
Overview of templates
Create inspection templates
InfoTypes and infoType detectors
Overview of infoTypes and infoType detectors
Built-in infoType detectors
List built-in infoType detectors
InfoType detector reference
Custom infoType detectors
Overview of custom infoType detectors
Create a regular custom dictionary detector
Create a large custom dictionary detector
Create a custom regex detector
Create a custom metadata label detector
Custom infoType examples
Manage infoTypes through the Google Cloud console
Modify infoType detectors to refine scan results
Match likelihood
Likelihood overview
Customize match likelihood
Mask and de-identify data
Overview
Transformation methods
Transformation reference
Text classification and redaction
Date shifting
Generalization and bucketing
Pseudonymization
De-identify sensitive data
De-identify data stored in Google Cloud
Overview
Through the Cloud console
Through the DLP API
Transformation details reference
De-identify data from any source
De-identify text or tabular content
Examples of text redaction
Examples of tabular data de-identification
Image inspection and redaction
Redact sensitive data from images
Create a de-identification template
Create a wrapped key
De-identify BigQuery data at query time
De-identification and re-identification of PII in large-scale datasets
Redact sensitive data from PDF files
Analyze re-identification risk
Overview of re-identification risk analysis
Re-identification risk analysis techniques
Compute k-anonymity for a dataset
Compute l-diversity for a dataset
Compute k-map for a dataset
Compute δ-presence for a dataset
Compute numerical and categorical statistics
Visualize re-identification risk using Data Studio
Connect to other services
Use Sensitive Data Protection with BigQuery
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Cloud Storage
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Cloud Storage
Automate the classification of data uploaded to Cloud Storage
Send inspection results to Data Catalog
Send inspection results to Security Command Center
Monitor your usage with Cloud Monitoring
Use Sensitive Data Protection with AWS S3
Use Sensitive Data Protection with JDBC Databases
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Apigee
Use Sensitive Data Protection with Data Fusion
Build a secure anomaly detection solution using Dataflow, BigQuery ML, and Sensitive Data Protection
Troubleshoot
Troubleshoot issues with the data profiler
Control access
Authentication
IAM
Access control with IAM
Sensitive Data Protection roles and permissions
Sensitive Data Protection service agents
Control access with VPC Service Controls
Monitor
Audit logging
Monitor your usage with Cloud Monitoring
Develop
All Sensitive Data Protection code samples
Get Started
Get Started with Google Cloud
Product List
Cloud Customer Care
Featured Products
Agent Platform
Apigee API Management
BigQuery
Compute Engine
Cloud CDN
Cloud Run
Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Gemini Enterprise
Google Kubernetes Engine
Looker
Cross-product Tools
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Technology Areas
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Industry solutions
Migration
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Cloud Data Loss Prevention (Cloud DLP) is now a part of Sensitive Data Protection. The API name remains the same: Cloud Data Loss Prevention API (DLP API). For information about the services that make up Sensitive Data Protection, see Sensitive Data Protection overview.
Home
Documentation
Security
Sensitive Data Protection
Guides
Send feedback
Send Sensitive Data Protection inspection results to Data Catalog
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Caution: On or after September 30, 2025, you can no
longer send inspection results from Sensitive Data Protection to
Data Catalog.
Data Catalog is deprecated and is discontinuing on
June 1, 2026.
We recommend that you send the inspection findings to
Knowledge Catalog instead. For more information, see
Send inspection results
to Knowledge Catalog as aspects. To migrate
existing job triggers to the new action, see
Migrate
to the Publish to Dataplex Universal Catalog action.
Tags and tag templates that Sensitive Data Protection created for you are
available in Knowledge Catalog as aspects. For instructions on
how to transition your Data Catalog content to
Knowledge Catalog, see Transition from
Data Catalog to Knowledge Catalog in the
Knowledge Catalog documentation.
This guide shows you how to use Sensitive Data Protection to inspect a
BigQuery table and to send the inspection results to
Data Catalog.
You can additionally perform data profiling, which is
different from an inspection operation. You can also send data profiles to
Knowledge Catalog. For more information, see Tag tables in Knowledge Catalog
based on insights from data profiles.
Data Catalog is a scalable metadata management
service that empowers you to quickly discover, manage, and understand all your
data in Google Cloud.
Sensitive Data Protection has built-in integration with Data Catalog.
When you use a Sensitive Data Protection action to
inspect your BigQuery tables for sensitive data, it can send results
directly to Data Catalog in the form of a tag template.
By completing the steps in this guide, you'll do the following:
Enable Data Catalog and Sensitive Data Protection.
Set up Sensitive Data Protection to inspect a BigQuery table.
Configure a Sensitive Data Protection inspection to send inspection results to
Data Catalog.
For more information about Data Catalog, see the
Data Catalog documentation.
If you want to send the results of data profiling operations—not inspection
jobs—to Knowledge Catalog, see the documentation for profiling an
organization, folder, or
project instead.
Costs
In this document, you use the following billable components of Google Cloud:
Sensitive Data Protection
BigQuery
To generate a cost estimate based on your projected usage,
use the pricing calculator.
New Google Cloud users might be eligible for a free trial.
Before you begin
Before you can send Sensitive Data Protection inspection results to
Data Catalog, do the following:
Step 1: Set up billing.
Step 2: Create a new project and populate a new BigQuery
table. (Optional.)
Step 3: Enable Data Catalog.
Step 4: Enable Sensitive Data Protection.
The following subsections cover each step in detail.
Step 1: Set up billing
You must first set up a billing account if you don't already have one.
Learn how to enable billing
Step 2: Create a new project and populate a new BigQuery table (Optional)
If you are setting up this feature for production work or already have a
BigQuery table that you want to inspect, open the
Google Cloud project that contains the table and skip to Step 3.
If you are trying out this feature and want to inspect test
data, create a new project. To complete this step, you must have the
IAM Project Creator role. Learn more about
IAM roles.
Go to the New Project page in the
Google Cloud console.
New Project
On the Billing account drop-down list, select the billing account that
the project should be billed to.
On the Organization drop-down list, select the organization that you
want to create the project in.
On the Location drop-down list, select the organization or folder that
you want to create the project in.
Click Create to create the project.
Next, download and store the sample data:
Go to the Cloud Run functions tutorials repository on GitHub.
Select one of the CSV files that has example data, and then download the
file.
Next, go to BigQuery in the
Google Cloud console.
Select your project.
Click Create Dataset.
Click Create Table.
Click Upload, and then select the file you want to upload.
Give the table a name, and then click Create Table.
Step 3: Enable Data Catalog
Next, enable Data Catalog for the project that contains the
BigQuery table you want to inspect using Sensitive Data Protection.
To enable Data Catalog using the Google Cloud console:
Register your application for Data Catalog.
Register your application for
Data Catalog
On the registration page, from the Create a project drop-down list,
select the project you want to use with Data Catalog.
After you've selected the project, click Continue.
Data Catalog is now enabled for your project.
Step 4: Enable Sensitive Data Protection
Enable Sensitive Data Protection for the same project you enabled
Data Catalog for.
To enable Sensitive Data Protection using the Google Cloud console:
Register your application for Sensitive Data Protection.
Register your application for
Sensitive Data Protection
On the registration page, from the Create a project drop-down list,
select the same project you chose in the previous step.
After you've selected the project, click Continue.
Sensitive Data Protection is now enabled for your project.
Configure and run a Sensitive Data Protection inspection job
You can configure and run a Sensitive Data Protection inspection job using either
the Google Cloud console or the DLP API.
Data Catalog tag templates are stored in the same project and
region as the BigQuery table. If you are inspecting a table from
another project, then you must grant the Data Catalog TagTemplate Owner
(roles/datacatalog.tagTemplateOwner) role to the
Sensitive Data Protection service agent in the project where the
BigQuery table exists.
Google Cloud console
To set up an inspection job of a BigQuery table using
Sensitive Data Protection:
In the Sensitive Data Protection section of the Google Cloud console,
go to the Create job or job trigger page.
Go to Create job or job trigger
Enter the Sensitive Data Protection job information and click Continue
to complete each step:
For Step 1: Choose input data, name the job by entering a value
in the Name field. In Location, choose
BigQuery from the Storage type menu, and then
enter the information for the table to be inspected. The Sampling section
is pre-configured to run a sample inspection against your data. You can
adjust the Limit rows by and Maximum number of rows fields to
save resources if you have a large amount of data. For more details,
see Choose input data.
(Optional) In Step 2: Configure detection, you configure what
types of data to look for, called "infoTypes."
For the purposes of this walkthrough, keep the default infoTypes
selected. For more details, see Configure
detection.
For Step 3: Add actions, enable Save to
Data Catalog.
(Optional) For Step 4: Schedule, for the purposes of this
walkthrough, leave the menu set to None so that the inspection
runs just once. To learn more about scheduling repeating inspection
jobs, see Schedule.
Click Create. The job runs immediately.
DLP API
In this section, you configure and run a Sensitive Data Protection inspection job.
Note: These instructions use APIs
Explorer to send requests that
contain JSON to Sensitive Data Protection. This is for learning, demonstration,
and experimentation purposes only, and you should never use APIs Explorer for
production work. You can use gcloud, curl, or httplib2 to send these
requests instead. You can also use one of the available Sensitive Data Protection
client libraries to access the API using Java, Python,
Go, and more.
The inspection job that you configure here instructs Sensitive Data Protection
to inspect either the sample BigQuery data described in Step
2 above or your own BigQuery data. The job
configuration that you specify is also where you instruct
Sensitive Data Protection to save its inspection results to
Data Catalog.
Step 1: Note your project identifier
Go to the Google Cloud console.
Go to the Google Cloud console
Click Select.
On the Select from drop-down list, select the organization for which
you enabled Data Catalog.
Under ID, copy the project ID for the project that contains the data
you want to inspect. This is the project described in the
set storage repositories step earlier on this page.
Under Name, click the project to select it.
Step 2: Open APIs Explorer and configure the job
Go to APIs Explorer on the reference page for the dlpJobs.create
method. To keep these instructions available, right-click the following
link and open it in a new tab or window:
Open APIs Explorer
In the parent box, enter the following, where project-id
is the project ID you noted earlier in the previous step:
projects/project-id
Next, copy the following JSON. Select the contents of the Request
body field in APIs Explorer, and then paste the JSON to replace the
contents. Be sure to replace the project-id,
bigquery-dataset-name, and
bigquery-table-name placeholders with the actual
project ID and BigQuery dataset and table names,
respectively.
{
"inspectJob":
{
"storageConfig":
{
"bigQueryOptions":
{
"tableReference":
{
"projectId": "project-id",
"datasetId": "bigquery-dataset-name",
"tableId": "bigquery-table-name"
}
}
},
"inspectConfig":
{
"infoTypes":
[
{
"name": "EMAIL_ADDRESS"
},
{
"name": "PERSON_NAME"
},
{
"name": "US_SOCIAL_SECURITY_NUMBER"
},
{
"name": "PHONE_NUMBER"
}
],
"includeQuote": true,
"minLikelihood": "UNLIKELY",
"limits":
{
"maxFindingsPerRequest": 100
}
},
"actions":
[
{
"publishFindingsToCloudDataCatalog": {}
}
]
}
}
To learn more about the available inspection options, see Inspecting storage and
databases for sensitive data. For a full list
of information types that Sensitive Data Protection can inspect for, see
InfoTypes reference.
Step 3: Execute the request to start the inspection job
After you configure the job by following the preceding steps, click
Execute to send the request. If the request is successful, a response
appears with a success code and a JSON object that indicates the status of the
Sensitive Data Protection job you just created.
Important: Keep the page open or copy the response JSON so that you have it
for the remainder of the tasks in this topic.
The response to your inspection request includes the job ID of your inspection
job as the "name" key, and the current state of the inspection job as
the "state" key. Because you just submitted the request, the job's state at
that moment is "PENDING".
Check the status of the Sensitive Data Protection inspection job
After you submit the inspection request, the inspection job begins immediately.
Google Cloud console
To check the status of the inspection job:
In the Google Cloud console, open Sensitive Data Protection.
Go to Sensitive Data Protection
Click the Jobs & job triggers tab, and then click All jobs.
The job you just ran will likely be at the top of the list. Check the State
column to be sure its status is Done.
You can click on the Job ID of the job to see its results. Each infoType
detector listed on the Job details page is followed by the number of
matches that were found in the content.
DLP API
To check the status of the inspection job:
Go to APIs Explorer on the reference page for the dlpJobs.get method
by clicking the following button:
Open APIs Explorer
In the name box, type the name of the job from the JSON response to
the inspection request in the following form:
projects/project-id/dlpJobs/job-id
The job ID is in the form of i-1234567890123456789.
To submit the request, click Execute.
If the response JSON object's "state" key indicates that the job is "DONE",
then the inspection job has finished.
Note: You can instruct Sensitive Data Protection to send you a notification when a
job is done, but that's beyond the scope of this topic. To learn more, see the
Actions conceptual page.
To view the rest of the response JSON, scroll down the page. Under "result" >
"infoTypeStats", each information type listed should have a corresponding
"count". If not, make sure that you entered the JSON accurately, and that the
path or location to your data is correct.
After the inspection job is done, you can continue to the next section of this
guide to view inspection results in Security Command Center.
View Sensitive Data Protection inspection results in Data Catalog
Because you instructed Sensitive Data Protection to send its inspection job
results to Data Catalog, you can now view the automatically
created tags and tag template in the Data Catalog UI:
Go to the Data Catalog page in the Google Cloud console.
Go to Data Catalog
Search for the table that you inspected.
Click on the results that match your table to view the table's metadata.
The following screen shot shows the Data Catalog metadata view of an
example table:
Inspection summary
Findings from Sensitive Data Protection are included in summary form for the
table that you inspected. This summary includes total infoType counts, as well
as summary data about the inspection job that includes dates and job resource
ID.
Any infoTypes that were inspected for are listed. Those with findings show a
count greater than zero.
Cleaning up
To avoid incurring charges to your Google Cloud account for the resources
used in this topic, do one of the following, depending on whether you used
sample data or your own data:
Sample data: Delete the project you created.
Your own data: Delete the Sensitive Data Protection job you
created.
Deleting the project
The easiest way to eliminate billing is to delete the project you created
while following the instructions provided in this topic.
To delete the project:
Warning: Deleting a project has the following
consequences:
If you used an existing project, you'll also delete
any other work you've done in the project.
You can't reuse the project ID of a deleted project.
If you created a custom project ID that you plan to use in
the future, delete the resources inside the project instead.
This step ensures that URLs that use the project ID—for example,
project-id.region-id.r.appspot.com—
remain available.
If you are exploring multiple how-to, tutorial, and quickstart topics,
reusing projects instead of deleting them may prevent you from exceeding
project quota values.
In the Google Cloud console, go to the Projects page.
Go to the Projects page
In the project list, select the project you
want to delete and click Delete project.
In the dialog, type the project ID, and then click
Shut down to delete the project.
When you delete your project using this method, the Sensitive Data Protection job
and Cloud Storage bucket you created are also deleted, and you're done.
It's not necessary to follow the instructions in the following sections.
Deleting the Sensitive Data Protection job or job trigger
If you inspected your own data, delete the inspection job or job trigger you
just created.
Google Cloud console
In the Google Cloud console, open Sensitive Data Protection.
Go to Sensitive Data Protection
Click the Jobs & job triggers tab, and then click the Job
triggers tab.
In the Actions column for the job trigger you want to delete, click
the more actions menu (displayed as three dots arranged vertically)
more_vert, and then click Delete.
Optionally, you can also delete the job details for the job that you ran.
Click the All jobs tab, and then in the Actions column for the job you
want to delete, click the more actions menu (displayed as three dots arranged vertically)
more_vert, and then Delete.
DLP API
Go to APIs Explorer on the reference page for the dlpJobs.delete method
by clicking the following button:
Open APIs Explorer
In the name box, type the name of the job from the JSON response to
the inspection request, which has the following form:
projects/project-id/dlpJobs/job-id
The job ID is in the form of i-1234567890123456789.
If you created additional inspection jobs or if you want to make sure you've
deleted the job successfully, you can list all of the existing jobs:
Go to APIs Explorer on the reference page for the dlpJobs.list method
by clicking the following button:
Open APIs Explorer
In the parent box, type the project identifier in the following form,
where project-id is your project identifier:
projects/project-id
Click Execute.
If there are no jobs listed in the response, you've deleted all of the jobs.
If jobs are listed in the response, repeat the deletion procedure above for
those jobs.
What's next
Learn more about the publishFindingsToCloudDataCatalog
action
in Sensitive Data Protection.
Learn more about creating custom tags or column-level tags in
Data Catalog based on Sensitive Data Protection results.
Learn more about inspecting storage repositories for sensitive
data using Sensitive Data Protection.
Learn how to use Data Catalog.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2026-10-07 UTC.
Products and pricing
See all products
Google Cloud pricing
Google Cloud Marketplace
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Android
Chrome
Firebase
Google AI
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Manage cookies
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
עברית
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
