--- PAGE 1 ---
Terms of Use 
 
1. General 
1.1. These Terms of Use govern your access to and use of our services including the 
application (whether as software or as a website or otherwise) its contents 
(including APIs, if any) push notifications and all other accompanying materials 
as identified in the Schedule below (collectively the “Service”). 
1.2. This Service is provided to you by the Government Technology Agency 
(“GovTech”). GovTech’s office is located at 10 Pasir Panjang Road, #10-01, 
Mapletree Business City, Singapore 117438. 
1.3. By accessing or using any part of this Service, you unconditionally agree and 
accept to be legally bound by these Terms of Use and any amendments thereto 
from time to time. GovTech reserves the right to change these Terms of Use at 
its sole discretion and at any time. Please read the Terms of Use carefully 
each time you access or use any part of this Service as (without prejudice 
to any other means your agreement to the Terms of Use as amended may 
manifest) such access or use shall constitute your agreement to the Terms 
of Use and any amendments to it. GovTech may at its sole discretion and 
without prejudice to its other rights under this Clause 1.3, also amend these 
Terms of Use by providing you with notice effective immediately or such other 
time designated by GovTech, and such notice may be provided by any means 
GovTech deems appropriate (for example, by posting the notice through the 
Service, any website related to the Service, or by email). 
1.4. If you do not agree to these Terms of Use, please do not use this Service or 
any part of this Service. 
1.5. If you are accessing or using the Service for and on behalf of another entity 
(such as your employer), you warrant and represent that you have the 
necessary authority to bind such entity to these Terms of Use. 
 
2. Nature of this Service 
  Please see the Schedule for more information and terms concerning this Service. 
--- PAGE 2 ---
 
3. Licence Terms and Restrictions 
3.1. The Service, including the materials made available on or through the Service, is 
owned by, licensed to, managed or controlled by GovTech. Please see clause 5 
(Third Party Materials) for more information. 
3.2. Subject to these Terms of Use, GovTech grants to you a non-exclusive, 
revocable, and non-transferable right to access and use the Service for 
personal or internal purposes only, and only for such use permitted by the 
functions of the Service and intended by GovTech. 
3.3. In relation to entities that are not Public Sector Entities, your use and access of 
the Service is restricted solely for such purpose that GovTech has consented to 
in writing (including via email) (‘Purpose’). Any change in the Purpose shall be 
subject to the GovTech’s prior written consent (including via email). ‘Public 
Sector Entities’ means the Government (including its ministries, departments 
and organs of state) and public authorities (such as statutory boards). 
3.4. You shall not, and shall not authorise or permit any third party to: 
3.4.1. bypass or circumvent any technical restrictions or digital protection 
measures in the Service or attempt to circumvent any such restrictions; 
3.4.2. reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, modify, translate, adapt 
or create derivative works of the Service (whether in relation to its source 
code, object code, underlying structure, ideas, algorithms or otherwise); 
3.4.3. reproduce, publish, distribute, transfer, publicly display, resell, rent, 
lease, or sublicense the Service, or loan, lend, pledge, assign, or otherwise 
encumber the Service to or in favour of any third party; 
3.4.4. remove or obscure the copyright, trademark and other proprietary 
notices contained on or in the Service; 
3.4.5. use the Service in any manner that is contrary to any applicable laws 
or regulations or rights of third parties (however arising and of whatever 
nature), or in a manner that constitutes harmful, fraudulent, or obscene 
activity; 
--- PAGE 3 ---
3.4.6. make the Service available in or through a network, file-sharing 
service, service bureau or any similar timesharing arrangement or as a 
managed service provider; 
3.4.7. perform any benchmarking tests or analyses of the Service; 
3.4.8. use the Service to create anything that would compete with the 
Service; 
3.4.9. transfer assign or permit the sharing of license keys to or with a third 
party; 
3.4.10. use the Service to process or permit to be processed any code of a 
third party; 
3.4.11. provide third party access to the Service; or 
3.4.12. export the Service in violation of any international sanctions or laws 
applicable to US entities. 
3.5. All express or implied rights to the Service not specifically granted herein are 
expressly reserved to GovTech. 
3.6. GovTech reserves the right to: 
3.6.1. Update or modify this Service from time to time; 
3.6.2. Deny or restrict access to or use of the Service by any particular 
person without ascribing any reasons whatsoever; and 
3.6.3. Discontinue or terminate this Service at any time without notice or 
liability to you whatsoever, whereupon all rights granted to you 
hereunder shall also terminate forthwith. You shall further upon notice 
from GovTech return or destroy all copies of the Service or materials 
therein that you may have been provided with. 
3.7. You will not interfere or attempt to interfere with the proper working of the 
Service or otherwise do anything that imposes an unreasonable or 
disproportionately large load on GovTech’s servers. 
 
4. Account Access and Security 
--- PAGE 4 ---
4.1. You are solely responsible for maintaining the confidentiality and security of 
any authentication credentials associated with your use of the Service, 
including the security of any of your devices which store the authentication 
credentials. 
4.2. GovTech shall be entitled, but not obliged, to verify the identity of the person 
using the Service. Without prejudice to the foregoing, GovTech is not under any 
duty to verify that any biometric identifier used with the Service, or on your 
device, belongs to you. 
4.3. GovTech shall have the sole and absolute discretion to invalidate any 
authentication credentials at any time, or require you to have to re-authenticate 
or refresh your authentication credentials at any time, without having to give 
any reason for the same. 
4.4. GovTech shall be entitled, but not obliged, to act upon or rely on any 
instructions, information, transmissions of data, or communications received 
from the account or use of the Service in relation to your authentication 
credentials, as if such instructions, information, data or communications were 
issued by you, whether or not the same was authorized by you. 
4.5. For the avoidance of doubt, you are solely responsible for any loss of whatever 
nature arising from unauthorized or unofficial modifications made to your 
device which permit or escalate privileged access, or remove restrictions to 
such access, which are not intended by the manufacturer or provider of your 
device or operating system of your device (e.g., “rooting” or “jailbreaking” your 
mobile phone). 
 
5. Third Party Materials 
5.1. The Service may require, enable or facilitate access to or use of software or 
services of a third party (“Third Party”). In such an event, there may be terms of 
use of the third party software or service (the “Third Party Terms”). GovTech 
may be required under or as a result of the Third Party Terms to notify you of 
certain terms that apply to you (either directly as an end user, or as a party 
whose acts or omissions could cause GovTech to breach the Third Party Terms) 
when you use the Services. An example of Third Party Terms may be open 
source software terms or standard form terms of the distribution platform from 
which you obtain any part of the Service which bind GovTech as a developer or 
--- PAGE 5 ---
user of the distribution platform (the “Distribution Terms”). Information on the 
Third Party Terms are embedded in the Service, already accounted for in these 
Terms of Use, publicly available (e.g the Distribution Terms) or otherwise 
indicated in the Schedule herein. For the avoidance of doubt, insofar as this 
Clause 5 relates to the Distribution Terms, the relevant Distribution Terms are 
the terms of the specific platform from which you obtained a copy of the 
software or application that is part of the Service. For example, if you obtained 
the said copy from the Google Play Store, then the relevant terms are Google’s 
Distribution Terms. 
5.2. It is your responsibility to check and read the most up-to-date versions of 
these Third Party Terms and you are deemed to have notice of the same. In 
particular, you are deemed to have notice of the Third Party Terms that GovTech 
(under the Third Party Terms) is required to notify you, and you unconditionally 
agree to be bound by all the obligations in the Third Party Terms which are 
applicable to you (whether as end user, or as a party whose acts or omissions 
could cause GovTech to breach the Third Party Terms, or otherwise). For the 
avoidance of doubt, where Third Party Terms are listed, such Third Party Terms 
shall be deemed to include any privacy policies and acceptable use policies as 
are applicable to you. 
5.3. If the Third Party Terms require you to enter into an agreement directly with the 
Third Party, then you unconditionally agree to enter into such agreement, and in 
any event, to be legally bound by the Third Party Terms. For the avoidance of 
doubt: 
5.3.1. some Third Party Terms (particularly open-source terms) permit either 
a direct licence to you from the Third Party or a sublicence from GovTech to 
you. In such cases, your licence is a direct licence from the Third Party to 
you; and 
5.3.2. the terms of your agreement with the Third Party will govern your use 
of the relevant third party software or service, and not these Terms of Use. 
5.4. If the Third Party Terms expressly or impliedly require GovTech to incorporate 
certain terms in these Terms of Use (inclusive of terms which impose any 
minimum or maximum standards herein, and/or terms described in Clause 5.5 
below), such terms are deemed to have been so incorporated (the 
“Incorporated Terms”). Examples of Incorporated Terms include provisions 
which require GovTech to give you notice of certain rights and liabilities or 
--- PAGE 6 ---
require GovTech to ensure that you acknowledge certain matters. Similarly, if 
the Third Party Terms expressly or impliedly require these Terms of Use to be 
altered such that the Third Party Terms are complied with, the parties herein 
agree that the Terms of Use shall be deemed to be so altered but only to the 
extent necessary for compliance. 
5.5. Some Third Party Terms grant the Third Party, or require GovTech to grant the 
Third Party, direct rights of enforcement of these Terms of Use as a third party 
beneficiary, against you. Such Third Party Terms are deemed to have been 
incorporated into these Terms of Use as Incorporated Terms, and you hereby 
agree to grant such Third Party, such direct rights of enforcement against you. 
5.6. Unless the applicable Third Party Terms permit you to commence legal 
proceedings against the relevant Third Party, you shall not threaten or 
commence legal proceedings against a Third Party without GovTech’s prior 
written approval. 
5.7. For the avoidance of doubt, without prejudice to Clause 5.4, to the extent of any 
inconsistency between these Terms of Use and the Third Party Terms, the latter 
shall prevail provided nothing in the Third Party Terms increases the liability of 
GovTech beyond that stated in Clause 9. 
5.8. Without prejudice and in addition to the foregoing, GovTech shall not be 
responsible for your use of any software or service of a Third Party. 
 
6. Your Consent to Your Data and to Access Functions of Your Device 
6.1. You hereby grant to GovTech a non-exclusive, worldwide, perpetual and royalty-
free right to collect, use, disclose, process, modify, adapt, create derivative 
works of, reproduce, and sublicense any and all information or data submitted, 
uploaded or shared by you to the extent necessary to provide the Service or for 
any other purpose expressly or impliedly provided in these Terms of Use, or as 
permitted by law. 
6.2. Use of the Service may require you to allow access by the Service to certain 
functions of your device, such as push notifications, the obtaining and/or 
sharing of your location, or the collection of data from you in connection with 
the Service. Your use of the Service shall constitute your consent to the access 
--- PAGE 7 ---
by the Service of such functions of your device as may be reasonably required 
by the Service. 
6.3. You further irrevocably and unconditionally waive, and shall cause to be 
irrevocably and unconditionally waived, all existing and future moral rights 
(including the right of identification) wherever in the world in respect of any 
information or data submitted, uploaded or shared by you (including feedback, 
requests or suggestions concerning the Services) to GovTech. Such waiver shall 
also extend to GovTech’s licencees, assigns and successors-in-title. 
6.4. Please also see clause 11 (Privacy Statement). 
 
7. Ownership of Feedback/Requests/Suggestions 
  You agree that all title and interest in any feedback, requests or suggestions from 
you concerning the Services provided to GovTech shall be owned by GovTech, 
without prejudice and in addition to clause 6.3, and you shall waive all rights 
existing in or in respect of the same (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any 
signature requirements). 
 
8. Confidentiality 
8.1. If you receive information or data (in whatever form) from GovTech or a Third 
Party which is designated confidential or proprietary or is otherwise reasonably 
understood to be confidential or proprietary (collectively, “Confidential 
Information”), you shall not use, disclose or reproduce the Confidential 
Information except for the purpose for which it was provided to you. If consent 
to disclose the Confidential Information to a third party is given by GovTech or 
the Third Party to you, any act or omission in respect of the Confidential 
Information by that person shall be deemed to be your act or omission and you 
agree to be fully liable for the same. In all cases, you shall protect the 
Confidential Information to the same extent you protect your own confidential 
information but in no event less than a reasonable standard of care. You shall 
ensure that any recipients are bound by confidentiality terms at least as 
restrictive as this Clause. 
8.2. You shall destroy any Confidential Information immediately upon request by 
GovTech or the Third Party. 
--- PAGE 8 ---
8.3. In the event: 
8.3.1. you are, or likely to be, required by an order of court to disclose 
Confidential Information; or 
8.3.2. you have reasonable grounds to suspect the unauthorised use or 
disclosure or reproduction of Confidential Information; 
  you shall immediately notify GovTech or the Third Party of the same and cooperate 
with GovTech or the Third Party to prevent or limit such disclosure. 
4. Nothing in this Clause 8 shall prejudice GovTech’s or the Third Party’s other 
rights at law. 
 
9. Disclaimers and Indemnity 
9.1. The Service is provided on an ‘as is’ and ‘as available’ basis without 
warranties of any kind. To the fullest extent permitted by law, GovTech 
does not make any representations or warranties of any kind whatsoever in 
relation to the Service and hereby disclaims all express, implied and/or 
statutory warranties of any kind to you or any third party, whether arising 
from usage or custom or trade or by operation of law or otherwise, 
including but not limited to any representations or warranties: 
9.1.1. as to the accuracy, completeness, correctness, currency, 
timeliness, reliability, availability, interoperability, security, non-
infringement, title, merchantability, quality or fitness for any particular 
purpose of the Service; and/or 
9.1.2. that the Service or any functions associated therewith will be 
uninterrupted or error-free, or that defects will be corrected or that this 
Service, website and the server are and will be free of all viruses and/or 
other malicious, destructive or corrupting code, programme or macro. 
9.2. GovTech shall also not be liable to you or any third party for any damage or 
loss of any kind whatsoever and howsoever caused, including but not 
limited to any direct or indirect, special or consequential damages, loss of 
income, revenue or profits, lost or damaged data, or damage to your 
computer, software or any other property, whether or not arising directly or 
indirectly from – 
9.2.1. your access to or use of this Service, or any part thereof; 
--- PAGE 9 ---
9.2.2. any loss of access or use of this Service or any part of this Service, 
howsoever caused; 
9.2.3. any inaccuracy or incompleteness in, or errors or omissions in the 
transmission of, the Service; 
9.2.4. any delay or interruption in the transmission of the Service, 
whether caused by delay or interruption in transmission over the 
internet or otherwise; or 
9.2.5. any decision made or action taken by you or any third party in 
reliance upon the Service, regardless of whether GovTech has been 
advised of the possibility of such damage or loss. 
9.3. Without prejudice and in addition to the foregoing, insofar as the Service 
facilitates or requires the provision, use or functioning of, or is provided in 
conjunction with, other products, software, materials and/or services not 
provided by GovTech, GovTech makes no representation or warranty in 
relation to such products, software, materials and/or services (including 
without limitation any representation or warranties as to timeliness, 
reliability, availability, interoperability, quality, fitness for purpose, non-
infringement, suitability or accuracy). 
9.4. You shall not rely on any part of the Service to claim or assert any form of 
legitimate expectation against GovTech, whether or not arising out of or in 
connection with GovTech’s roles and functions as a public authority. GovTech 
shall have no responsibility or liability to you or any third party arising out of or 
in connection with any fraud, phishing, or any other illegal act or omission by 
other parties in relation to the Service and it is your own responsibility to ensure 
that the Service you are using or accessing is from a legitimate source. 
9.5. You agree to defend and indemnify and keep GovTech and its officers, 
employees, agents and contractors harmless against all liabilities, losses, 
damages, costs or expenses (including legal costs on an indemnity basis) 
howsoever arising out of or in connection with your access or use of the 
Service (including third party software or services) or your non-compliance 
with the Terms of Use, Third Party Terms or Incorporated Terms, whether or 
not you had been advised or informed of the nature or extent of such 
liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses. You warrant and represent 
that your access or use of the Service does not and will not breach or 
violate any laws, regulations, trade, economic and/or export sanctions 
--- PAGE 10 ---
(wherever in the world) applicable to you, and that you shall not transmit 
any malicious code, illegal, infringing or undesirable content or materials 
to GovTech or its agents or any Third Party. 
9.6. GovTech shall have the right to take any and all necessary actions/omissions to 
protect its interests, including complying with any legal requirements (such as 
taking down, disabling and disabling access to, removing (permanently or 
temporarily), and/or restoring (including restoring access to) any materials 
contained in, accessed through, uploaded to, and/or made available via the 
Service in response to any take-down or restoration notices). You agree that 
GovTech is not obliged to determine the merits of any take-down or restoration 
notices. You further waive any rights arising as a result of the actions/omissions 
taken by GovTech. 
9.7. Without prejudice and in addition to GovTech’s other rights: 
9.7.1. in no event shall GovTech’s total cumulative liability arising out of or 
in connection with these Terms of Use to you exceed the amount of fees or 
payment received by GovTech (and not paid or given to any Third Party by 
GovTech) from you for the Service in the 12 months preceding the date of 
the first cause of action; and 
9.7.2. no action may be brought by you against GovTech arising out of or in 
connection with these Terms of Use more than one (1) year after the cause 
of action arose. 
 
10. Hyperlinks 
10.1. Insofar as the Service provides a hyperlink to material not maintained or 
controlled by GovTech, GovTech shall not be responsible for the content of the 
hyperlinked material and shall not be liable for any damages or loss arising from 
access to the hyperlinked material. Use of the hyperlinks and access to such 
hyperlinked materials are entirely at your own risk. The hyperlinks are provided 
merely as a convenience to you and do not imply endorsement by, association 
or affiliation with GovTech of the contents of or provider of the hyperlinked 
materials. 
10.2. Caching and hyperlinking to, and the framing of, any part of the Service is 
prohibited save where you have obtained GovTech’s prior written consent. Such 
--- PAGE 11 ---
consent may be subject to any conditions as may be determined by GovTech in 
its sole discretion. If you hyperlink to or frame any part of the Service, that shall 
constitute your acceptance of these Terms of Use and all amendments thereto. 
If you do not accept these Terms of Use as may be amended from time to time, 
you must immediately discontinue linking to or framing of any part of the 
Service. 
10.3. GovTech reserves all rights: 
10.3.1. to disable any links to, or frames of, any materials which are 
unauthorised (including without limitation materials which imply 
endorsement by or association or affiliation with GovTech, materials 
containing inappropriate, profane, defamatory, infringing, obscene, 
indecent or unlawful topics, names, or information that violates any written 
law, any applicable intellectual property, proprietary, privacy or publicity 
rights); and 
10.3.2. to disclaim responsibility and/or liability for materials that link to or 
frame any part of the Service. 
 
11. Privacy Statement 
  You also agree to the terms of the Privacy Statement for this Service as may be 
amended from time to time. The Privacy Statement will form part of these Terms of 
Use. 
   
12. Rights of Third Parties 
  Subject to the rights of the Third Party, a person who is not a party to this Terms of 
Use shall have no right under the Contract (Rights of Third Parties) Act or otherwise 
to enforce any of its terms. Variation or rescission of these Terms of Use shall not 
require the consent of any third party, including any Third Party. 
 
13. Assignment 
13.1. You may not assign or sub-contract this Terms of Use without the prior 
written consent of GovTech. 
--- PAGE 12 ---
13.2. GovTech may assign, novate, transfer, or sub-contract the rights and 
liabilities in respect of the Service and this Terms of Use, without notifying you 
and without further reference to you. Your acceptance of this Terms of Use 
shall also constitute your consent to such assignment, novation, transfer or 
sub-contract. 
 
14. Severability 
  If any term of these Terms of Use is held by a court or tribunal of competent 
jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, then these Terms of Use, including all of 
the remaining terms, will remain in full force and effect as if such invalid or 
unenforceable term had never been included but, to the extent permissible, such 
invalid or unenforceable terms shall be deemed to have been replaced by terms 
that are (a) valid and enforceable and (b) express the intention or produce the result 
closest to the original intention of the invalid or unenforceable terms. 
 
15. Governing Law and Dispute Resolution 
15.1. These Terms of Use shall be governed by and construed in accordance with 
laws of Singapore. 
15.2. Subject to clause 14.3, any dispute arising out of or in connection with these 
Terms of Use, including any question regarding its existence, validity or 
termination, shall be referred to and finally resolved in the Courts of the 
Republic of Singapore and the parties hereby submit to the exclusive 
jurisdiction of the Courts of the Republic of Singapore. 
15.3. GovTech may, at its sole discretion, refer any dispute referred to in clause 
14.2 above to arbitration administered by the Singapore International 
Arbitration Centre (“SIAC”) in Singapore in accordance with the Arbitration 
Rules of the SIAC (‘SIAC Rules’) for the time being in force, which rules are 
deemed to be incorporated by reference in this clause. Further: 
15.3.1. The seat of the arbitration shall be Singapore. 
15.3.2. The tribunal shall consist of one (1) arbitrator. 
15.3.3. The language of the arbitration shall be English. 
--- PAGE 13 ---
15.3.4. All information, pleadings, documents, evidence and all matters 
relating to the arbitration shall be confidential. 
Where GovTech is the defendant or respondent, it shall be given at least 30 
days before the commencement of any legal action against it to elect to 
exercise the right herein to have the dispute submitted to arbitration. This 
right to elect shall not prejudice GovTech’s right to a limitation defence and 
the period to exercise the right shall not be abridged by reason of any 
accrual of a limitation defence in favour of GovTech during the said period. 
 
16. Order of Precedence 
16.1. In the event of any conflict, inconsistency or ambiguity between or in any one 
or more terms in these Terms of Use, such conflict, inconsistency or ambiguity 
shall be resolved in favour of GovTech and the provision or interpretation which 
is more favourable to GovTech shall prevail. Notwithstanding any other term, 
GovTech has the sole and absolute discretion to determine which term or 
interpretation is more favourable to it and such decision shall be binding on 
you. 
 
17. Entire Agreement 
17.1. These Terms of Use contains the entire and whole agreement concerning the 
subject matter of these Terms of Use. The Terms of Use supersedes all prior 
written or oral representations, agreements and/or understandings between 
GovTech and yourself. Except for amendments by GovTech under these Terms 
of Use, no amendment to these Terms of Use shall be of any force unless 
agreed upon in writing by both parties. 
 
18. Waiver 
18.1. Any delay, failure or omission on the part of GovTech in enforcing any right, 
power, privilege, claim or remedy (“Remedy”), which is conferred under the 
Terms of Use or at law or in equity, or arises from any breach by you, shall not 
(a) be deemed to be or be construed as a waiver or variation of the Remedy, or 
of any other such Remedy, in respect of the particular circumstances in 
question, or (b) operate so as to bar the enforcement or exercise of the 
Remedy, or of any other such Remedy in any other subsequent instances. 
--- PAGE 14 ---
18.2. No waiver by GovTech of any breach of the Terms of Use by you shall be 
deemed to be a waiver of any other or of any subsequent breach. 
18.3. Any waiver by GovTech granted under the Terms of Use must be in writing 
and may be given subject to conditions. Such waiver under the Terms of Use 
shall be effective only in the instance and for the purpose for which it is given. 
These Terms of Use are dated 24 July 2024. 
 
Schedule 
1. Name of Service: Cloak (The Central Privacy-Preserving Toolkit) 
2. Nature of Service 
2.1. This Service facilitates the application of data transformation techniques and 
other privacy-preserving technologies to various forms of data. 
2.2. You are not permitted to use this Service if you are not using the Service for and 
on behalf of your Agency. Notwithstanding this, the Terms of Use bind you 
individually and you will be personally responsible for use of this Service. 
3. Third party software/services 
  Please see this link for a list of open source components used in the Service. 
4. Data Management 
4.1. You have the full responsibility for all information, data and materials (including 
their derivatives) which GovTech may access or receive from you, in the course 
of providing the Service (“Your Data”). 
4.2. You acknowledge and agree that GovTech may routinely delete any or all of 
Your Data from its systems after a reasonable period as from time to time 
determined by GovTech. Without prejudice to Clause 9 above, GovTech shall 
bear no liability for such deletion of Your Data. 
4.3. You shall ensure that you have the necessary rights to provide, upload, supply, 
and/or transmit Your Data to or through the Service and that Your Data does not 
contain any malicious or unauthorized code, virus, trojan horse, worm, logic 
bomb or other software routine or hardware components designed to permit 
unauthorised access, to disable, erase, or otherwise harm software, hardware 
or data, or to perform any such actions. 
--- PAGE 15 ---
4.4. You shall ensure that your acts or omissions in respect of Your Data complies 
with the all applicable data laws, regulations, rules and guidelines. This 
includes assessing if the usage of Cloak for your dataset complies with all 
applicable data laws, regulations, rules and guidelines. For avoidance of doubt, 
GovTech shall not be responsible for any violation of data privacy or IMs 
resulting from your acts or omissions, whether negligent or not. 
4.5. You further grant to GovTech, and shall ensure GovTech is granted, the right to 
perform malware and data scan, process, copy, or duplicate Your Data, code 
and files, only for and to the extent necessary for the purpose of providing the 
Service. 
4.6. You shall not upload any information, data and material that are classified 
above the following classifications: Confidential (Cloud-Eligible) \ Sensitive 
(High) 