<<PAGE 1>>
Privacy Statement 
This Privacy Statement (“Privacy Statement”) must be read in conjunction with the Terms of Use 
that accompany the applicable service you are requesting from us (the “Service”). 
 
General 
1. This is a Government agency Digital Service. 
2. Please note that: 
2.1. We may use ‘cookies’, where a small data file is sent to your browser to store and track 
information about you when you enter our websites. The cookie is used to track 
information such as the number of users and their frequency of use, profiles of users 
and their preferred sites. While this cookie can tell us when you enter our sites and 
which pages you visit, it cannot read data off your hard disk. 
2.2. You can choose to accept or decline cookies. Most web browsers automatically 
accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies if 
you prefer. This may prevent you from taking full advantage of the website. 
2.3. The Service may utilise cookies to facilitate authentication and/or login to the Service. 
If such cookies are rejected, you might not be able to use the Service. 
3. Please see the Annex for any additional terms or information. 
 
Use of data 
4. We may request or collect certain types of data from you in connection with your access or 
use of the Service. The data that may be requested/collected include those identified in the 
Annex herein. Your data may be stored in our servers, systems or devices, in the servers, 
systems or devices of our third party service providers or collaborators, or on your device, 
and may be used by us or our third party service providers or collaborators to facilitate your 
access or use of the Service. We or our third party service providers or collaborators may 
collect system configuration information and/or traffic information (such as an IP address) 
and/or use information or statistical information to operate, maintain or improve the 
Services or the underlying service of the third party service provider or collaborator. For the 
avoidance of doubt, in this Privacy Statement, a reference to a third party service provider 
or collaborator includes other third parties who provide a service or collaborate with our 
third party service provider or collaborator. 
<<PAGE 2>>
5. If you provide us with personal data, or where we collect personal data from you: 
5.1. We may use, disclose and process the data for any one or more of the following 
purposes: 
5.1.1. to assist, process and facilitate your access or use of the Service; 
5.1.2. to administer, process and facilitate any transactions or activities by you, 
whether with us or any other Public Sector Entity or third party service provider or 
collaborator, and whether for your own benefit, or for the benefit of a third party on 
whose behalf you are duly authorized to act; 
5.1.3. to carry out your instructions or respond to any queries, feedback or 
complaints provided by (or purported to be provided by) you or on your behalf, or 
otherwise for the purposes of responding to or dealing with your interactions with 
us; 
5.1.4. to monitor and track your usage of the Service, to conduct research, data 
analytics, surveys, market studies and similar activities, in order to assist us in 
understanding your interests, concerns and preferences and improving the 
Service (including any service of a third party service provider or collaborator) and 
other services and products provided by Public Sector Entities. For the avoidance 
of doubt, we may also collect, use, disclose and process such information to 
create reports and produce statistics regarding your transactions with us and your 
usage of the Services and other services and products provided by Public Sector 
Entities for record-keeping and reporting or publication purposes (whether 
internally or externally); 
5.1.5. for the purposes of storing or creating backups of your data (whether for 
contingency or business continuity purposes or otherwise), whether within or 
outside Singapore; 
5.1.6. to enable us to contact you or communicate with you on any matters 
relating to your access or use of the Service, including but not limited to the 
purposes set out above, via email, push notifications or such other forms of 
communication that we may introduce from time to time depending on the 
functionality of the Service and/or your device. 
5.2. We may share necessary data with other Public Sector Entities, and third party service 
providers in connection with the Service, so as to provide the Service to you in the most 
efficient and effective way unless such sharing is prohibited by law. 
5.3. We will NOT share your personal data with entities which are not Public Sector Entities, 
except where such sharing is necessary for such entities to assist us in providing the 
Service to you or for fulfilling any of the purposes herein. 
<<PAGE 3>>
5.4. For your convenience, we may also display to you data you had previously supplied us 
or other Public Sector Entities. This will speed up the transaction and save you the 
trouble of repeating previous submissions. Should the data be out-of-date, please 
supply us the latest data. 
6. Please note that we may be required to disclose your data by law, including any law 
governing the use/provision of any service of a third party service provider or collaborator. 
7. You may withdraw your consent to the use and disclosure of your data by us with 
reasonable notice and subject to any prevailing legal or contractual restrictions; however, 
doing so may prevent the proper functioning of the Service and may also result in the 
cessation of the Service to you. 
 
Protection of data 
8. To safeguard your personal data, all electronic storage and transmission of personal data is 
secured with appropriate security technologies. 
9. The Service may contain links to external sites whose data protection and privacy practices 
may differ from ours. We are not responsible for the content and privacy practices of these 
other websites and encourage you to consult the privacy notices of those sites. 
 
Contact information 
10. Please contact cloak@tech.gov.sg if you: 
10.1. have any enquires or feedback on our data protection policies and procedures; or 
10.2. need more information on or access to data which you have provided to us in the 
past. 
 
Definitions 
11. In this Privacy Statement, “Public Sector Entities” means the Government (including its 
ministries, departments and organs of state) and public authorities (such as statutory 
boards) and “personal data” shall have the same meaning as its definition in the Personal 
Data Protection Act 2012 (No. 26 of 2012). 
This version of the Privacy Statement is dated 1 December 2022. 
 
<<PAGE 4>>
Annex 
1. Name of Service: Cloak (The Central Privacy-Preserving Toolkit) 
2. Types of data requested/collected 
2.1. Work email and user-defined password for authentication purposes. 
2.2. Dataset uploaded by user for purposes of data anonymisation/transformation. 